UNCLASSIFIED (U)
20 FAM 102
data management processes
20 FAM 102.1
Data gOVERNANCE
(CT:DATA-4;   06-12-2023)
(Office of origin:  M/SS/CfA)
20 FAM 102.1-1
DATA MANAGEMENT
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
(CT:DATA-4;   06-12-2023)
a. This section outlines the roles and responsibilities
for handling the Department’s data assets to 1) ensure compliance with
guidance provided in the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of
2018 and 2) to establish processes for collaboration between bureaus, offices,
posts, and the Enterprise Data Council (EDC) to create and enforce data
policies, while supporting nimble working groups dedicated to addressing the
Department’s most pressing data challenges.
b. Within the Department, enterprise data management
responsibilities are exercised at the Executive, Strategic, Tactical, and
Operational Levels (see Figure 1). These levels and the key stakeholders are
laid out below. It is important to note, however, that while not all Department
personnel can identify with one of the roles highlighted in the enterprise data
governance framework, everyone in the workforce has a role in data policy
compliance.
Figure 1: Data Governance Framework
20 FAM 102.1-1(A)
Executive
Level
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
a. The Executive Level, which consists of the
Enterprise Governance Board (EGB), ensures organizational commitment to
treating data as a strategic asset and leveraging it in decision-making at the
Department by:
(1)  Establishing the expectations and requirements
that drive the data governance, data management, and data stewardship that
occur at the Strategic, Tactical, and Operational Levels, respectively;
(2)  Approving data initiatives and championing their
development and implementation;
(3)  Reviewing and approving how data governance,
management, and stewardship are measured across the Department; and,
(4)  Delegating responsibilities for strategic
decision-making to the EDC.
b.
2 FAM 040
provides details on the role and responsibilities of the EGB.
20 FAM 102.1-1(B)
Strategic
Level
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
a. The Strategic Level, which consists of the EDC,
serves as the Enterprise Data Governance Body of the Department, as required by
OMB M-19-23. It sets and enforces priorities for managing data as a strategic
asset to support the agency in meeting its mission.
b. The EDC is chaired by the CDO and comprised of
Senior Department officials from each Under Secretariat deemed necessary by the
Under Secretary for Management (M), including the Statistical Official and the
Department’s Evaluation Officer(s). EDC membership, charter, and actions
are regularly reported to OMB through the Federal Data Strategy. The EDC
Charter provides details on the role and responsibilities of the EDC.
c.  The EDC is charged with:
(1)  Developing enterprise strategies and policies for
data management in line with the expectations and requirements of the Executive
Level and overseeing their implementation at the Tactical and Operational
Levels;
(2)  Advising on the action plans/roadmaps the Tactical
Level develops to enforce alignment at the Operational Levels with the
enterprise data strategies and policies;
(3)  Resolving disputes between Department
organizational units in instances where they cannot agree on data sharing and
access parameters;
(4)  Working with the Tactical Level to define and
deliver effective means to measure bureaus’ adherence to data policies,
facilitating the delivery of measurable metrics to the Executive Level; and
(5)  Escalating issues to the Executive Level as
appropriate.
20 FAM 102.1-1(C)
Tactical
Level
(CT:DATA-4;   06-12-2023)
a. The Tactical Level consists of Bureau Chief Data
Officers (BCDOs), EDC Liaisons, and other stakeholders in bureaus, offices, and
posts that represent their organization units’ data equities. These
personnel are GS-14/15 or FS-02/01 level Department employees who are the
“go-to” persons (below the DAS level) for all things data in their
work units. Collectively, they support the EDC by guiding the implementation of
the Data Management Policies (see
20
FAM 103
) at the bureau level by:
(1)  Identifying data domains and their data holdings
and systems;
(2)  Developing and implementing action plans and
roadmaps to align domains’ management of data with the Data Management
Policies;
(3)  Promoting, directing, and coordinating the
Operational Level activities of Data Stewards and working with them to
facilitate education on Data Management Policies in their bureaus/offices;
(4)  Defining and collecting metrics that assess the
effectiveness and value of the data management efforts; and
(5)  Elevating issues to the Strategic Level for
action, as necessary.
b. These personnel may administer and support the Data
Management Policies efforts by being a part of data-related working groups.
Currently, the Department has five data-related working groups, and they align
and operate under the EDC. They comprise senior representatives and
bureau/post-nominated data experts who bring their organizational context to
the collaborative development of policies or management processes that follow
the Department’s data priorities and facilitate the Department’s
compliance with federal legislation and guidance.
(1)  Application and Data Coordinators Working Group
(ADCWG) - Chaired by the DCDO, this working group consists of data stewards
from across the Department. This group works closely with Data Custodians to
create, modify, and publish Department data standards in the MRD.
(2)  Data Scientist Practitioner Group (DS PG) -
Chaired by the Chief Data Scientist (CDS) as the Department designated official
for Responsible AI, as defined in
1
FAM 044
.  This PG serves as a coordinating body for Department bureaus and
offices engaged in the design, implementation, and sustainment of AI and ML
projects and programs. The PG helps ensure all Department work complies with AI
and ML standards, principles, and best practices as required by Executive Order
13960.
(3)  Electronic Records Management Working Group
(ERMWG) - Chaired by the CDO, this working group consists of records management
officials from across the Department. This group supports the execution of data
retention and records management requirements, as led by A/GIS/IPS/RA.
(4)  Enterprise Data Strategy Working Groups (EDSWGs) -
Led by the Enterprise Data Strategy team in M/SS/CfA, these working groups
align to the EDS Implementation Campaigns. The first two EDSWGs are the DEIA
Data Working group, which is a collaboration of GTM, M/SS, S/OCR, and S/ODI,
and the Strategic Competition Working Group, which is a collaboration of EAP,
F, M/SS, and PM.
(5)  Geospatial Data Act Working Group (GDAWG) -
Consists of representatives from the Covered Agency Inspector Generals to
support the Department’s 13 responsibilities and reporting requirements
outlined in Section 759(a) of the Geospatial Data Act (43 U.S.C. 46).
(6)  In coordination with the EDC, members of the
Tactical Level may be required to create new working groups to satisfy new and
evolving mandates. Similarly, they may sunset or modify any working groups
whose mandates have been satisfied.
20 FAM 102.1-1(D)
Operational
Level
(CT:DATA-4;   06-12-2023)
a. The Operational Level consists of Data Stewards who
are responsible for ensuring effective control and use of data assets. The
Operational Level guides and monitors the implementation of
20 FAM 102
at the working-level on a
daily basis by:
(1)  Being well-versed in the Data Management Policies
and any supplemental guidance the EDC issues;
(2)  Informing and enacting the action plans and
roadmaps the Tactical Level designs to implement the Data Management Policies;
(3)  Measuring and reporting to the Tactical Level on
performance in terms of accountability, efficiency, and effectiveness in
handling data in accordance with the Data Management Policies;
(4)  Assisting the Tactical Level in mapping data
across disparate data systems and storages; and
(5)  Educating Data Users on the value of data and its
management requirements.
b. Data Users – who are Department employees or
contractors – also play a key role in the data management efforts as they
generate and/or use data as part of their official daily duties. They originate
the data pipeline that drives decision-making all the way to the Executive
Level and keeps the Department functioning. For this reason, they must
understand the Data Management Policies (see
20 FAM 103
) and procedures and must
consult and follow Data Stewards’ guidance on how to apply them in their
day-to-day duties.
(1)  Data Users who generate data can do so by creating
it (e.g.: by merging individual datasets), extracting it (e.g.: from a cable),
or acquiring it (e.g.: from a database). These Data Users have the following
responsibilities:
(a)  Gather, verify, and document information on the
origin (the name of the place data came from, if data did not come directly
from the source, e.g.: DS Bureau), source (the name of the entity that produced
data, e.g.: World Bank), and purpose of the data they onboard in accordance
with the Department’s guidance to ensure standardization.
(i)     Documentation must be developed before data is
onboarded;
(ii)    It is strongly encouraged that onboarded data
comes from authoritative sources that are trusted because their authority or
authenticity is widely recognized by experts in the field;
(iii)    Once verified as authoritative, data must be
designated as such; and
(iv)   A statement of purpose must be developed before
data is being onboarded and include:
·
Contact information for the Data User who generated it;
·
Date of collection and/or update;
·
The reason for collecting given data; and
·
Information on how and by what bureaus/offices or types of roles
data can and cannot be used.
(2)  Data Users who create data with the use of a code
that they author or acquire from a third party have the following
responsibilities:
(a)  Ensure that code is clean, understandable, and
accompanied by a step-by-step documentation on how to apply it and for what
purpose. Data Stewards will review code and provide instructions on how to
improve it if necessary;
(b)  Define and publish code’s storage location;
(i)     Save code together with the contact information
for the Data User who designed it;
(ii)    Develop documentation as the code is being
created;
(iii)    Save and publish code together with its documentation;
and
(iv)   Link code to the relevant product(s).
(3)  Data Users who use data to complete their daily
tasks have the following responsibilities:
(a)  Use data in accordance with its statement of
purpose; any other use must be justified, documented, and approved by the Data
Steward (in a Data Sharing Agreement (DSA), if applicable);
(b)  Use data as defined in the signed DSA;
(c)  Use only data that is designated as authoritative,
where it exists; and
(d)  In case there are further questions about the
statement of purpose, consult with Data Stewards on what can and cannot be done
with the data.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)