EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503 
June 28, 2019 
M-19-21 
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 
FROM: 
Russell T. Vought • J 
Acting Director 
Office of 
Management and Budget 
DavidS.Ferriero~~ i. ~ 
Archivist of 
the United St~tcl; 
National Archives and Records Administration 
SUBJECT: 
Transition to Electronic Records 
This Administration is driving transformational change to modernize Government, including 
moving to electronic government, through multiple complementary channels. In March 2018, the 
President's Management Agenda (PMA) established an overarching vision to improve mission 
delivery, customer service, and accountable stewardship on behalf of 
the American public. The 
PMA established 14 Cross-Agency Priority (CAP) Goals and recognized that powerful 
transformation would occur at the intersection of 
multiple goals, citing the move to an 
electronic--or "paperless"-government as a primary example that touches multiple goals. 
In addition, in June 2018, the Administration's Delivering Government Solutions in the 2J81 
Century: Reform Plan and Reorganization Recommendations included a proposal to transition 
Federal agencies' business processes and recordkeeping to a fully electronic environment, and 
end the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) acceptance of 
paper records 
by December 31, 2022. This memorandum specifically describes the steps the Government will 
take to meet the NARA goal. 
The Federal Government spends hundreds of 
millions of 
taxpayer dollars and thousands of 
hours 
annually to create, use, and store Federal records in analog (paper and other non-electronic) 
formats. Maintaining large volumes of analog records requires dedicated resources, management 
attention, and security investments that should be applied to more effectively managing 
electronic records. The processes that create analog records increase burden on citizens by 
requiring them to conduct business with the Government in person or by mail, rather than online, 
and trap valuable Federal data in paper records where it can only be extracted manually and at 
great expense. 
Agencies are encouraged to consider cost-effective opportunities to transition related business 
processes to an electronic environment in support of 
the PMA and Reform Plan. This 
memorandum specifically focuses on records management, and directs Federal agencies to 
transition recordkeeping to a fully electronic environment that complies with all records 
management laws and regulations. 
This memorandum directs all Federal agencies to: 
1. 
Ensure that all Federal records are created, retained, and managed in electronic formats, 
with appropriate metadata; and 
2. 
Consistent with records management laws and regulations, develop plans to close 
agency-operated storage facilities for paper and other, analog records, and transfer those 
records to Federal Records Centers operated by NARA or commercial storage facilities. 
Additionally, this memorandum consolidates requirements from prior 0MB records management 
guidance to ensure consistent, government-wide policy and practices. This consolidation also 
addresses the burden reduction requirements in 0MB Memorandum M-17-26, Reducing Burden 
for Federal Agencies by Rescinding and Modifying 0MB Memorandum. Accordingly, 0MB 
rescinds the following memoranda: 
• 
0MB Memorandum M-12-18, Managing Government Records Directive; and 
• 
0MB Memorandum M-14-16, Guidance on Managing Email. 
Section I of 
this memorandum establishes deadlines for all agencies to adopt electronic 
recordkeeping requirements, in a manner that complies with the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. 
Chapters 29-33). Section II establishes requirements for NARA and the Office of 
Personnel 
Management (OPM) that support the government-wide goals in Section I. 
Section I: Implementation Guidance for all Agencies 
All Federal agencies (CFO Act and non-CFO Act) must meet the following targets in order to 
begin the transition to a fully electronic government. 
1.1 
By 2019, Federal agencies will manage all permanent electronic records in an 
electronic format. 
By December 31, 2019, all permanent electronic records in Federal agencies will be managed 
electronically to the fullest extent possible for eventual transfer and accessioning by NARA in an 
electronic format. Federal agencies have been required to manage all (permanent and temporary) 
email records in an electronic format since 2016 and are expected to continue to do so. 
1.2 
By 2022, Federal agencies will manage all permanent records in an electronic 
format and with appropriate metadata. 
2 
By December 31, 2022, all permanent records in Federal agencies will be managed electronically 
to the fullest extent possible for eventual transfer and accessioning by NARA in an electronic 
format. This does not apply to permanent records accessioned into NARA or transferred for 
storage into Federal Records Centers before December 31, 2022. After December 31, 2022, all 
agencies will transfer permanent records to NARA in electronic formats and with appropriate 
metadata, in accordance with NARA regulations and transfer guidance, except where an agency 
has been granted an exception under procedures to be developed by NARA under paragraph 2.2, 
below. 
1.3 
By 2022, Federal agencies will manage all temporary records in an electronic format 
or store them in commercial records storage facilities. 
By December 31, 2022, all temporary records in Federal agencies will be managed electronically 
to the fullest extent possible. Agencies that receive an exception under paragraph 2.2 may 
continue to produce and store records in analog formats, but inactive records eligible for transfer 
after December 31, 2022 must be stored in commercial storage facilities. This does not apply to 
temporary records that are transferred for temporary storage into Federal Records Centers before 
December 31, 2022. 
By December 31, 2022, all agencies must close agency-operated records storage facilities and 
transfer inactive, temporary records to Federal Records Centers or commercial records storage 
facilities. Temporary, analog records that become eligible for transfer after December 31, 2022 
must be transferred to commercial storage facilities that meet NARA records storage 
requirements. 
1.4 
Federal agencies will maintain robust records management programs that comply 
with the Federal Records Act and its regulations. 
Agencies must continue the following practices to ensure agency records are appropriately 
retained, stored, and transferred according to their disposition schedules. 
• 
Designate a Senior Agency Official for Records Management who is at the Assistant 
Secretary level or equivalent and has direct responsibility for ensuring that the agency 
efficiently and appropriately complies with all applicable records management statutes, 
regulations, and policy, including the requirements of 
this memorandum. 
• 
Designate an Agency Records Officer who is responsible for overseeing agency 
recordkeeping requirements and operations, and holds the NARA Certificate of 
Federal 
Records Management Training. 
• 
Annually inform all agency personnel of 
their records management responsibilities in law, 
regulation, and policy, and provide training specific to the practices and policies of 
the 
organization. 
• 
Ensure all records created or maintained by the agency are covered by a NARA-approved 
records schedule and permanent records are transferred to the National Archives when they 
reach their scheduled disposition date. 
• 
Ensure NARA-approved records schedules are updated as business practices transition to 
electronic workflows. 
3 
Section II: Implementation Guidance for NARA and OPM 
NARA and OPM will take steps to assist all agencies in transitioning to fully electronic records 
management. 
2.1 
By 2020, NARA will revise records management regulations and guidance to 
support Federal agencies' transition to fully electronic recordkeeping. 
By September 30, 2020, NARA will issue updated regulations and guidance to provide clear 
standards for fully electronic recordkeeping, including electronic records storage, formats, and 
metadata, as well as transfer guidance. NARA will provide modernized processes to efficiently 
schedule, transfer, and accession permanent, electronic records through fully electronic 
processes. 
NARA will issue updated regulations and clear policies that permit agencies to digitize records 
created in analog formats and, where appropriate, dispose of 
analog originals. 
In addition, NARA will establish a process to issue exceptions to the provisions of 
this 
memorandum where replacing analog records with electronic systems would be burdensome to 
the public, the cost would exceed the benefit, or otherwise should not be replaced for some other 
reason, including statutory, regulatory, or policy barriers. 
2.3 
By 2020, OPM will revise position classification standards for archival and records 
management occupational series to incorporate electronic records management 
responsibilities and functions. 
By December 31, 2020, OPM will issue updated position classification standards for the 
archivist, archives technician, and records and information management job series to include 
electronic records tasks, assignments, and responsibilities. 
2.4 
By 2022, NARA will no longer accept transfers of permanent or temporary records 
in analog formats and will accept records only in electronic format and with 
appropriate metadata. 
After December 31, 2022, NARA will no longer accept new transfers of 
permanent or temporary 
analog records to the fullest extent possible. NARA will continue to store and service all analog 
records transferred to a Federal Records Center by that date until their scheduled disposition 
date. Once those records reach their disposition date, NARA will accept the permanent records 
into the National Archives in their original (analog) format and will appropriately dispose of 
the 
temporary records. 
Beginning January 1, 2023, all other legal transfers of 
permanent records must be in electronic 
format, to the fullest extent possible, regardless of whether the records were originally created in 
electronic formats. After that date, agencies will be required to digitize permanent records in 
analog formats before transfer to NARA. Digitization and transfer must be made in accordance 
with NARA regulations and transfer guidance, including metadata requirements. 
4 
