UNCLASSIFIED (U)
20 FAM 300
data domains
20 FAM 301
human capital data
20 FAM 301.1
DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(Office of Origin:  S/OCR)
20 FAM 301.1-1
Authority
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(State Only)
(Applies to Foreign Service and Civil Service employees)
a. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C.
2000d, et seq.
b. The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, 29 U.S.C.
206(d).
c.  The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Sections 501 and
504, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 791, et seq.
d. Non-discrimination provisions of the Foreign Service
Act of 1980, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 3905(d) and (e).
e. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Regulations
published at 29 CFR 1614.601.
f.  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Management Directive
(MD) 715.
20 FAM 301.1-2
Data Collection
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(State Only)
(Applies to Foreign Service and Civil Service employees)
a. The Department has established a system to collect
and maintain accurate employment information on the race, national origin, sex
and disabilities of its employees.
b. The information collected under this section will be
reported only in the form of gross statistics.  The Department will not collect
or maintain any information on the race, national origin, sex or disability of
individual employees except when an automated data processing system is used in
accordance with standards and requirements prescribed by the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to ensure individual privacy and the separation of
that information from personnel records.
c.  The Department will report to the EEOC, the Office
of Personnel Management, Congress, the White House, and other federal entities,
demographics by race, national origin, sex and disability as required.
20 FAM 301.1-2(A)
Data
Collection Regarding Race, National Origin, and Sex
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(State Only)
(Applies to Foreign Service and Civil Service employees)
a. Data on race, national origin and sex will be
collected by means of voluntary self-identification.  If an employee does not
voluntarily provide the requested information, the Department will advise the
employee of the importance of the data and of the Department's obligation to
report it.  If the employee still refuses to provide the information, the
Department must make visual identification and inform the employee of the data
it will be reporting.
b. If the Department believes that information provided
by an employee is inaccurate, the Department will advise the employee that the
data is collected solely for statistical purposes, the need for accuracy, the
Department's recognition of the sensitivity of the information, and the
existence of procedures to prevent its unauthorized disclosure.  If, thereafter,
the employee declines to change the potentially inaccurate self-identification,
the agency must accept it.
c.  Only those categories of race and national origin
prescribed by the EEOC may be used.
d. Only the specific procedures for the collection and
maintenance of data that are prescribed or approved by the EEOC may be used.
e. The Department may make an exception to the
prescribed procedures and requirements only with the advance written approval
of the EEOC.
f.  The Department may use the collected data only in
studies and analyses, which contribute affirmatively to achieving the
objectives of the equal employment opportunity program.
g. The Department will not establish a quota for the
employment of persons on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex or
religion.
20 FAM 301.1-2(B)
Data
Collection Regarding Disabilities
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(State Only)
(Applies to Foreign Service and Civil Service employees)
a. Data on disabilities will be collected by means of
voluntary self-identification.  If an employee does not voluntarily provide the
requested information, the Department will advise the employee of the importance
of the data and of the Department's obligation to report it.
b. If an employee who has been appointed pursuant to
special appointment authority for hiring individuals with disabilities still
refuses to provide the requested information, the Department must identify the
employee's disability based upon the records supporting the appointment.
c.  If any other employee still refuses to provide the
requested information or provides information which the Department believes to
be inaccurate, the Department may report the employee's disability status as
unknown.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)