UNCLASSIFIED (U)
20 FAM 103.7
Data retention
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(Office of origin:  M/SS/CfA)
20 FAM 103.7-1
Data retention
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
When practicing
Data Retention
within their
organizational unit, Data Stewards, in consultation with their organizational
unit’s records management policies and
5 FAM 430
, should:
(1)  Ensure bureau/post/office personnel understands
the Department’s definition of the terms
data
and
record
and guidance on when data becomes a record to ensure retention requirements are
met.
(2)  Follow enterprise guidance on how to prepare data
for preservation and how to store the data to ensure standardization and
interoperability over the lifecycle of the information.
(a)  Preserve data with its metadata.
(b)  Ensure metadata prepared for records includes:
·
Information on the origin and source;
·
Contact information of the office that originated the record;
·
Information on the data used to create the records;
·
Date of archiving;
·
Statement of purpose that will include reason for retention; and
·
Records retention schedule citation.
(c)  Identify and tag all instances of PII and PHI, and
other access restrictions.
(d)  Complete a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) when
developing or procuring IT systems or projects that collect, maintain or
disseminate PII from or about members of the public, or initiating a new
electronic collection of PII for 10 or more persons.
(e)  Ensure it is approved by the Senior Agency Official
for Privacy and published publicly, as appropriate – see
5 FAM 460
.
(f)   Define and publish location of archived data and
records.
(g)  Ensure a System of Records Notice (SORN) is created,
approved by the Senior Agency Official for Privacy, and published publicly when
appropriate – see
5 FAM 460
.
(h)  Publish information on archived data and records in
a bureau centralized repository, even if access to any of the data or records
must remain restricted.
§
In case archives cannot be accessed, provide the reason.
(i)   Preserve records together with relevant data, if
applicable.
(j)   If data comes from another part of the Department,
the originating party and the preservation party may consider signing an MOU or
DSA.
(3)  Centralize and publish bureau retention schedules.
(4)  Seek methods to automate archiving to make the
process efficient.
(5)  Apply the Data Sharing and Data Access policies when
making their archives available to others.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)