EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503 
THE DIRECTOR 
November 19, 2020 
M-21-07 
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 
FROM: 
Russell T. Vought (\ ~ 
~ 
Director 
\..J '­
SUBJECT: 
Completing the Transition to Internet Protocol Version 6 (1Pv6) 
This memorandum updates guidance on the Federal government's operational 
deployment and use of 
1Pv6. 1Pv6 is the next-generation Internet protocol, designed to replace 
version 4 (1Pv4) that has been in use since 1983. Internet Protocol (IP) addresses are the globally 
unique numeric identifiers necessary to distinguish individual entities that communicate over the 
Internet. The global demand for IP addresses has grown exponentially with the ever-increasing 
number of 
users, devices, and virtual entities connecting to the Internet, resulting in the 
exhaustion of 
readily available 1Pv4 addresses in all regions of 
the world. Over time, numerous 
technical and economic stop-gap measures have been developed in an attempt to extend the 
usable life time of1Pv4, but all of 
these measures add cost and complexity to network 
infrastructure and raise significant technical and economic barriers to innovation. It is widely 
recognized that full transition to 1Pv6 is the only viable option to ensure future growth and 
innovation in Internet technology and services. 
1 It is essential for the Federal government to 
expand and enhance its strategic commitment to the transition to 1Pv6 in order to keep pace with 
and capitalize on industry trends. Building on previous initiatives,2 the Federal government 
remains committed to completing this transition. 
3 
Beginning in 2005, the Federal government's 1Pv6 initiative served as a vital catalyst, 
fostering commercial development and adoption of 
1Pv6 technology. In the last 5 years, 1Pv6 
1 IAB Statement on 1Pv6, The Internet Architecture Board, November 2016, https://www.iab.org/2016/11/07/iab­
statement-on-ipv6/. 
2 In August 2005, 0MB issued M-05-22, Transition Planning 
for Internet Protocol Version 6 (1Pv6), requiring 
agencies to enable 1Pv6 on their backbone networks by June 30, 2008. This policy outlined deployment and 
acquisition requirements. In September 20 I 
0, 0MB issued a memo entitled "Transition to I 
Pv6," requiring Federal 
agencies to operationa11y deploy native 1Pv6 for public Internet servers and internal applications that communicate 
with public servers. Specifically, the 2010 memorandum required agencies to upgrade public/external facing servers 
and services (e.g., web, email, DNS, ISP services) to operationa11y use native 1Pv6 by the end of FY 2012; and to 
and to upgrade internal client applications that communicate with public Internet servers and supporting enterprise 
networks to operationally use native 1Pv6 by the end of 
FY 2014. 
3 This memorandum does not apply to national security systems, although the document may be leveraged to inform 
their management processes. 
momentum in industry has dramatically increased, with large IPv6 commercial deployments in 
many business seetors now driven by reducing cost, decreasing complexity, improving security 
and eliminating barriers to innovation in networked information systems. Several large network 
operators, software vendors, service providers, enterprises, state governments, and foreign 
governments have deployed significant IPv6 infrastructures. In fact, many of 
these organizations 
have migrated, or are planning to migrate, to "IPv6-only"4 infrastructures to reduce operational 
concerns associated with maintaining two distinct networking regimes. 
5 
This memorandum communicates the requirements for completing the operational 
deployment of 
IPv6 across all Federal information systems and services, and helps agencies 
overcome barriers that impede them from migrating to IPv6-only network environments. The 
strategic intent is for the Federal government to deliver its information services, operate its 
networks, and access the services of 
others using only IPv6. 
6 
Specific steps that agencies are expected to take to complete the transition to 1Pv6 
Preparing for an 1Pv6-only Infrastructure 
0MB previously issued policy discussing the expectation for agencies to run dual stack 
(IPv4 and IPv6) into the foreseeable future; however, in recent years it has become clear that this 
approach is overly complex to maintain and unnecessary. As a result, standards bodies and 
leading technology companies began migrating toward IPv6-only deployments, thereby 
eliminating complexity, operational cost, and threat vectors associated with operating two 
network protocols. 
In many instances where Federal agencies deployed IPv6 on public facing systems, IPv6 
access is already being used by as many, or more, users as IPv4. As information technology 
continues to evolve toward mobile platforms, Internet of 
Things (IoT), and wireless networks, 
IPv6 growth will continue to accelerate. 
The technical, economic and security benefits of 
operating a single, modern, and scalable 
network infrastructure are the driving forces for the evolution towards IPv6-only in the private 
sector. To keep pace with and leverage this evolution in networking technology, agencies shall: 
1. Designate an agency-wide IPv6 integrated project team (including acquisition, policy, 
and technical members), or other governance structure, within 45 days of 
issuance of 
this 
policy to effectively govern and enforce IPv6 efforts; 
4 1Pv6-only refers to the state of 
an operational system or service when 1Pv4 protocol functions (addressing, packet 
forwarding) are not in use. The NIST USGv6 profile defines technical requirements for a product to be capable of 
operating in IPv6-only environments. 
5 Examples of industry trends in 1Pv6 migration can be found at: 
https 
://www.intemetsociety.org/ 
deploy3 60/ipv6/ 
case-studies/ and https:/ 
/teamarin. 
net/ 
get6/ipv6-case-studies/. 
6 Note that for public Internet services, maintaining viable 1Pv4 interfaces and transition mechanisms at the edge of 
service infrastructures may be necessary for additional time, but this does not preclude operating the backend 
infrastructure as IPv6-only. 
2 
2. Issue and make available on the agency's publicly accessible website, an agency-wide 
IPv6 policy, within 180 days of 
issuance of 
this memorandum. The agency-wide IPv6 
policy must require that, no later than Fiscal Year (FY) 2023, all new networked Federal 
information systems are IPv6-enabled7 at the time of 
deployment, and state the agency's 
strategic intent to phase out the use of 
IPv4 for all systems; 
3. Identify opportunities for IPv6 pilots and complete at least one pilot of 
an IPv6-only 
operational system by the end of FY 2021 and report the results of 
the pilot to 0MB upon 
request; 8 
4. Develop an IPv6 implementation plan9 by the end of 
FY 2021, and update the 
Information Resources Management (IRM) Strategic Plan10 as appropriate, to update all 
networked Federal information systems (and the IP-enabled assets associated with these 
systems) to fully enable native IPv6 11 operation. The plan shall describe the agency 
transition process and include the following milestones and actions: 12 
a. At least 20% of 
IP-enabled assets on Federal networks are operating in IPv6-only 
environments by the end of 
FY 2023; 13 
b. At least 50% of 
IP-enabled assets on Federal networks are operating in IPv6-only 
environments by the end of 
FY 2024; 
c. At least 80% ofIP-enabled assets on Federal networks are operating in IPv6-only 
environments by the end of 
FY 2025; and 
d. Identify and justify Federal information systems that cannot be converted to use 
IPv6 and provide a schedule for replacing or retiring these systems; 
7 IPv6-enabled refers to a system or service in which the use ofIPv6 is "turned on" for production use. 
8 In order to expedite progress towards IPv6-only enterprise deployments, NIST, through the National Cyber Center 
of 
Excellence (NCCoE), will establish a cooperative Federal government and industry pilot project to the 
demonstrate commercial viability and to document a practice guide for secure IPv6-only enterprise deployment 
scenarios. 
9 The IPv6 implementation plan must ensure coordination with other, relevant department modernization initiatives 
and require that all shared services offered by the agency provide full IPv6 support (including the ability to function 
in IPv6-only mode) with feature and performance parity with existing IPv4 services. 
10 Agencies are required to maintain an IRM Strategic Plan in accordance with 0MB Circular A-130, Managing 
Iriformation as a Strategic Resource. 
11 Native IPv6 refers to direct support ofIPv6 in a system or service without requiring the use ofIPv4 for basic 
communications. 
12 0MB guidance has required agencies to acquire and deploy IPv6 capabilities in some systems since 2010. It is 
recommended that agencies inform the development of 
their plan with practical experience gained from pilot 
activities and prior production deployments. Agency plans will evolve over time and thus it is important to identify 
systems that are already capable of 
running IPv6 and develop and implement plans to enable IPv6 in those systems 
first, then evaluate the potential to migrate those systems to IPv6-only environments. 
13 Potential starting points might include enabling IPv6 on existing systems that are already capable of 
running IPv6 
(e.g., focusing on commodity IT systems with commercial off 
the shelf operating systems that are already capable of 
running IPv6.) 
3 
5. Work with external partners to identify systems that interface with networked Federal 
information systems and develop plans to migrate all such network interfaces to the use 
ofIPv6;and 
6. Complete the upgrade of 
public/external facing servers and services ( 
e.g., web, email, 
DNS, and ISP services) and internal client applications that communicate with public 
Internet services and supporting enterprise networks to operationally use native 1Pv6. 
Adhering to Federal 1Pv6 Acquisition Requirements 
In December 2009, the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Council issued a final rule 
amending the FAR14 to ensure that future acquisitions of 
networked information technology 
included 1Pv6 requirements. The key element of 
this amendment states: 
• 
"Unless the agency Chief Information Officer waives the requirement, when acquiring 
information technology using Internet Protocol, the requirements documents must 
include reference to the appropriate technical capabilities defined in the USGv6 Profile 
(NIST Special Publication 500-267) and the corresponding declarations of conformance 
defined in the USGv6 Test Program." 
This strategic acquisition approach enables natural technology refresh cycles to upgrade 
the installed base of 
networked IT products and services to be 1Pv6-capable. 
15 Doing so ensures 
that Federal IT systems are positioned to leverage the technical and economic benefits of 
1Pv6, 
and enable Federal Chief Information Officers to eventually migrate to 1Pv6-only environments 
when appropriate. In accordance with existing FAR requirements, agencies shall: 
1. Continue to use the USGv6 Profile to define agency or acquisition specific requirements 
for 1Pv6 capabilities when purchasing networked information technology and services. 
Going forward, this should include specifying the requirement for hardware and software 
to be capable of 
operating in an 1Pv6-only environment; 
2. Continue to require potential vendors to document compliance with such 1Pv6 
requirement statements through the USGv6 Test Program; and 
3. In rare circumstances where requiring demonstrated 1Pv6 capabilities would pose undue 
burden on an acquisition action, provide a process for agency Chief Information Officers 
to waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis. In such cases, the purchasing agency 
shall request documentation from vendors detailing explicit plans ( 
e.g., timelines) to 
incorporate 1Pv6 capabilities to their offerings. 
14 The 1Pv6 FAR Requirements can be located at: https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2009-l2-10/html/E9­
28931 .htm. 
15 1Pv6-capable refers to a system or service that has correctly implemented a complete set of 
1Pv6 capabilities. The 
NIST USGv6 profile describes detailed technical requirements for 1Pv6 capabilities for distinct product types. 
4 
Evolving the USGv6 Program 
In order to continue to protect Federal investments in IPv6 technology and to ensure the 
quality and completeness of IPv6 capabilities in acquisitions, NIST will continue to update and 
expand the USGv6 Program. NIST will continue to issue periodic updates to the USGv6 Profile 
to incorporate the latest Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) 16 specifications relevant to IPv6 
technology. Special emphasis shall be placed on ensuring the inclusion of IPv6 security 
technologies and those network capabilities necessary to support other Federal initiatives such as 
IoT, adoption of 
cloud-based shared services, advanced wireless communications, and software 
defined and virtualized networks. 
The USGv6 Test Program will continue to provide government-wide conformance and 
general interoperability testing of 
commercial product offerings. This program will continue to 
be implemented by accredited external testing laboratories and continue to be coordinated, to the 
maximum extent possible, with existing industry driven test programs to minimize the burden on 
vendors. To avoid any unnecessary duplication of generic testing requirements, agencies shall: 
1. Leverage the USGv6 Test Program for basic conformance and general interoperability 
testing of 
commercial products; and 
2. Ensure that agency or acquisition specific testing focus on specific systems integration, 
performance and information assurance testing not covered in the USGv6 Test Program. 
Ensuring Adequate Security 
In addition to Federal guidance, industry guidance and best practices for the secure 
deployment of IPv6 have been well documented. 
17 While the knowledge base of 
how to secure 
IPv6 has matured significantly, the understanding of 
how IPv6 enables more efficient approaches 
to overall security is often overlooked. For example, organizations that develop IPv6 addressing 
plans that are highly correlated with their network security architecture are finding a significant 
reduction in the complexity of 
their security configurations. In order to help realize these 
security benefits across the Federal government, agencies shall: 
1. Ensure that plans for full support for production IPv6 services are included in IT security 
plans, architectures and acquisitions; 
2. Ensure that all systems that support network operations or enterprise security services 
(e.g., identity and access management systems, firewalls and intrusion detection / 
protection systems, end-point security systems, security incident and event management 
systems, access control and policy enforcement systems, threat intelligence and 
reputation systems) are IPv6-capable and can operate in IPv6-only environments; 
16 For additional information on the IETF, refer to https://www.ietf.org/. 
17 Examples include: 1Pv6 Enterprise Network Scenarios at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4057/; 
Enterprise IPv6 Deployment Guidelines at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc7381/; IPv6 Transition/Co-existence 
Security Considerations at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc4942/; and other specifications from the IETF 1Pv6 
Operations (v6Ops) and Operational Security Capabilities for IP Network Infrastructure (OpSec) working groups at 
https 
:/ 
/ 
datatracker. 
ietf. org/wg/v6ops/about/ and https 
:// 
datatracker. 
ietf. org/wg/ 
opsec/about/. 
5 
3. Follow applicable Federal guidance and leverage industry best practices, as appropriate, 
for the secure deployment and operation of IPv6 networks; and 
4. Ensure that all security and privacy policy assessment, authorization and monitoring 
processes fully address the production use of IPv6 in Federal information systems. 
Government-wide Responsibilities 
The following agencies lead Government-wide efforts to support the transition to IPv6. 
The Department of 
Commerce will: 
1. Continue to enhance and maintain the USGv6 Profile and Test program; and 
2. Develop, in collaboration with the Department of 
Homeland Security, enhanced security 
guidelines for IPv6 adoption throughout the Federal IT infrastructure. 
The Department of 
Homeland Security will: 
1. Develop, in collaboration with the Department of Commerce, enhanced security guidance 
and operational directives for IPv6 adoption throughout the Federal IT infrastructure; 
2. Enhance relevant security and resilience programs and services (e.g., Trusted Internet 
Connections, Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation, Einstein) to fully support the 
production use of 
IPv6 in all Federal IT systems; and 
3. Enhance the ability to measure and report on the extent of 
IPv6 and IPv4 deployment and 
utilization levels within Federal information systems. 
The General Services Administration will: 
1. Ensure relevant GSA programs and services require full IPv6 support with feature and 
performance parity with existing IPv4 services; 
2. Ensure that government-wide contract vehicles include IPv6 requirements for 
acquisitions using Internet Protocol; and 
3. Work with agencies and Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions (EIS) vendors to ensure that 
all EIS network services are IPv6-enabled at the time of 
deployment as specified by 
agency IPv6 implementation plans and EIS task orders. 
The Federal Chieflnformation Officer's Council, in collaboration with the Federal Chief 
Acquisition Officer's Council, will: 
1. Support 0MB and the agencies by providing guidance for IPv6 implementation, as 
necessary; 
6 
2. Provide for an interagency forum to share information and best practices, and coordinate 
efforts with external partners, as appropriate, in support of 
the transition to IPv6; and 
3. Engage with industry, as appropriate, to obtain lessons learned and best practices and 
ensure that products and services meet the needs of 
the Federal government. 
Rescissions 
This memorandum rescinds M-05-22, Transition Planning 
for Internet Protocol Version 
6 (1Pv6), August 2, 2005 and Transition to 1Pv6, September 28, 2010. The 2010 memorandum 
required Federal agencies to operationally deploy native IPv6 for public Internet servers and 
internal applications that communicate with the public servers. While the 2010 memorandum is 
now rescinded, the following two actions from the 2010 memorandum are still relevant and 
agencies are required to address them in future agency IPv6 transition plans and reports: (1) 
upgrade public/external facing servers and services (e.g., web, email, DNS, ISP services, etc.) to 
operationally use native IPv6 by the end of 
FY 2012; and (2) upgrade internal client applications 
that communicate with public Internet servers and supporting enterprise networks to 
operationally use native IPv6 by the end of 
FY 2014. While the 2012 and 2014 deadlines have 
past, 0MB expects agencies who have not yet completed these actions to do so as soon as 
possible. 
Policy Assistance 
All questions or inquiries should be addressed to the 0MB Office of 
the Federal Chief 
Information Officer (OFCIO) via email: ofcio@omb.eop.gov. 
7 
