UNCLASSIFIED (U)
20 FAM 101.3
Data management GENERAL POLICIES
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(Office of origin:  M/SS/CFA)
20 FAM 101.3-1
general policies
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
a. Pursuant to the Foundations for Evidence-Based
Policymaking Act of 2018 and
1 FAM 044
,
the Chief Data Officer (CDO) and the Center for Analytics in the Office of
Management Strategy & Solutions (M/SS/CfA) are authorized to administer and
manage data management policies and processes at the Department. Under the Act,
the CDO holds broad data management roles and responsibilities at the
Department. Because the CDO also acts as the Managing Director of M/SS/CfA, the
organization supports the CDO as they fulfill duties related to data management
at the Department. The CDO and the M/SS/CfA work with the Enterprise Data
Council (EDC) to ensure that bureaus/posts/offices’ varied interests are
considered.
b. Per OMB M-10-06 and M-13-13, "agencies must
adopt a presumption in favor of openness to the extent permitted by law and
subject to privacy, confidentiality, security, or other valid
restrictions." Accordingly, data not exempt under the above policies
should be made available within the Department. Where technical limitations
exist, parties will work to prioritize sharing to meet Department and
Government-wide goals. Restrictions may include but are not limited to
licensing agreements, personally-identifiable information (PII) protected
pursuant to 5 U.S.C.  552a (also known as the Privacy Act of 1974); information
exempted from mandatory public disclosure in accordance with 5 U.S.C.  552
(Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)); information within systems covered under
attorney-client privilege or attorney work product; information restricted from
release due to classification; and information controls on secondary release
and dissemination of technical documents and as defined by Diplomatic Security.
c.  M/SS/CfA will maintain enterprise standards in the
form of the Master Reference Data (MRD) and in partnership with Department Data
Stewards and system developers. M/SS/CfA will also provide guidance on how to
prepare data for storage and use and provide an environment for
interoperability so that data can be moved and consolidated within and between
individual/unique data stores and applications.
d. Bureaus/posts/offices must publish information about
the data they hold, including relevant metadata, even if access to any of the
data must remain restricted, in the Department’s Enterprise Data
Inventory. If data cannot be shared in the Department’s Enterprise Data
Catalog, there must be a justification on why not.
e. Data must either be archived for records
preservation or disposed of in accordance with applicable records retention
policies and/or its published records retention schedule – see
5
FAM 400
for guidance.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)