UNCLASSIFIED (U)
12 FAM 550
sECURITY
INCIDENT
PROGRAM
(CT:DS-419;   09-28-2023)
(Office of Origin:  DS/IS/APD)
12 FAM 551
GENERAL
12 FAM 551.1
Purpose
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
The purpose of the Security Incident Program is to enhance
the protection of Department information and information systems by
identifying, assessing, and assigning responsibility for failures to safeguard
Department information and information systems in accordance with applicable
laws and Department policies.
12 FAM 551.2
Applicability
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
This program applies to all Department personnel as well
as other U.S. Government personnel under chief of mission (COM) authority
abroad including any of the aforementioned who do not possess a security clearance. 
Additionally, it applies to all Department information system users and any
person authorized for logical access to Department information systems.
12 FAM 551.3
Authorities
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. Relevant Federal authorities include:
(1)  Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act
of 1986, Public Law 99-399; 22 U.S.C. 4801, et seq. (1986), as amended;
(2)  Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (1984), 18 U.S.C. §
1030, as amended;
(4)  Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a;
(5)  Executive Order 13526, Classified National
Security Information, December 29, 2009;
(6)  Executive Order 13231, Critical Infrastructure
Protection in the Information Age (2001), as amended by Executive Order 13286
(2003);
(7)  Executive Order 13800, Strengthening the Cybersecurity
of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure, May 11, 2017; and
(8)  National Security Decision Directive 298
(NSDD-298), National Operations Security Program
b. Relevant FAM sections include, but may not be
limited to:
(1)
3
FAM 4000
, Employee Relations, including provisions in
3 FAM 4172
regarding employee
obligations, rights, and liabilities;
(2)
3
FAM 7700
, LE Staff Benefits, Disciplinary Actions and Separations
(3)
5
FAM 700
, Internet and Intranet Use;
(4)
5
FAM 800
, Information Systems Management;
(5)
5 FAM
1060
, Information Assurance Management;
(6)
12
FAM 226.7-4
, Unauthorized Disclosures;
(7)
12 FAM
510
, Safeguarding National Security and Other Sensitive Information;
(8)
12 FAM
530
, Storing and Safeguarding Classified Material;
(9)
12 FAM 540
,
Sensitive But Unclassified Information (SBU);
(10)
12
FAM 600
, Information Security Technology;
(11)
(12)
12 FAM
710
, Security Policy for Sensitive Compartmented Information
(12) 12 FAH-10, Information Systems Security Controls;
and
(13) 12 FAH-6, Overseas Security Policy Board (OSPB)
Security Standards.
12 FAM 552
Classified security
incidents
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Classified security incidents relate to the
mishandling of classified information or misuse of classified Department
systems.
b. A classified security incident occurs when there has
been a knowing, willful, or negligent action contrary to the requirements of
Executive Order 13526 or Department policies for safeguarding classified
information.
c.  A classified security incident may be adjudicated
as a violation or an infraction based on whether it could reasonably be
expected to result in an unauthorized disclosure of classified information.
12 FAM 552.1
Examples of Classified
Security Incidents
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. This section contains examples of classified
security incidents, in accordance with
12
FAM 500
, that affect the protection of classified information.  The
examples are illustrative and indicate the wide range of possible security
incidents in this area.
b. Examples of classified security incidents include,
but are not limited to:
(1)  Failing to properly escort, i.e., maintaining
continuous visual and/or physical control over uncleared personnel (e.g.,
uncleared visitors or janitorial/maintenance personnel) in an area where
classified information is processed, discussed, viewed, or stored, or allowing
improper access to Department controlled facilities (see
12 FAM 534.1
);
(2)  Taking classified material out of the building
without proper double-wrap protection (see
14 FAM 733.3
and
14
FAH-4 H-320
);
(3)  Crossing international borders with classified
material without courier authorization (see
12 FAM 536.9-1
);
(4)  Failing to secure containers with classified
material (see
12 FAM 539.1
paragraph e);
(5)  Storing classified materials in desk drawers or
other improper containers (e.g., a non-barlock file cabinet) (see
12 FAM 539.1
paragraph h);
(6)  Reading classified material in any public area
(see
12 FAM 536.9-4
paragraph e);
(7)  Transmitting classified material on unclassified
facsimile machines (see
12 FAM
536.9-2
and 536.9-3);
(8)  Losing control of classified material by leaving
it in non-secure areas (e.g., hotel rooms, taxis, or restaurants) (see
12 FAM 533.1
and 534.1);
(9)  Discussing classified information on unsecure
telephones or areas not authorized for classified discussions (see
12 FAM 536.8
paragraph c); and
(10) Failing to perform daily checks on supplemental
entry verification systems (SEV
) (
see
12 FAH-6 H-311.11
paragraph d, H-312.11 paragraph d, H-313.11
paragraph d, and H-314.11 paragraph d).
12 FAM 552.2
Classified Security
Incidents Involving Information Systems
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. This subsection contains examples of security
incidents, in accordance with
12
FAM 600
, that affect the protection of classified information with respect
to information systems.  The examples are illustrative and indicate the wide
range of possible security incidents in this area.
b. Examples of classified security incidents involving
information systems include, but are not limited to:
(1)  Failure to remove and properly secure media, such
as classified data storage media (e.g., flash drive, USB storage drive, hard
drives, CD ROM; see
12 FAM 632.1-6
paragraph a);
(2)  Failure to prevent uncleared persons from viewing
a classified screen and/or printer output (see
12 FAM 633.2-2
);
(3)  Improper storage of passwords to classified
automated information systems (see
12
FAM 632.1-4
paragraph k);
(4)  Unauthorized connectivity between classified and
unclassified hardware (e.g., modems, central processing units, printers, and
switch boxes) (see
12 FAH-10
H-272.16
); and
(5)  Introducing classified information or media into
an unclassified system (see
12 FAM 635
,
for authorized exception).
12 FAM 552.3
Special Category of
Security Violations
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. The Department’s communications security
(COMSEC) incident program, including its reporting procedures, is in
5 FAH-6 H-530
.
b. The Program Applications Division (DS/IS/APD)
evaluates all COMSEC incident reports and renders an adjudication based on
evidence of the degree of national security information compromised.  DS/IS/APD
provides a copy of the notification letter to the Cryptographic Services
Branch.
c.  Although the COMSEC program's administrative
aspects (e.g., timely accounting of inventories) are important, failure to
perform such aspects will not be investigated as a security violation or
infraction under the security incident program when there is no evidence of a
direct effect on the system's security.
12 FAM 553
Unclassified Security
Incidents
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Unclassified security incidents under this chapter
relate to misuse of unclassified Department systems or mishandling of
Sensitive/SBU or otherwise administratively controlled information.  Incidents
involving the mishandling of classified information or misuse of classified
Department systems are addressed under
12
FAM 554
, Reporting of Security Incidents.
b. An unclassified security incident occurs when there
has been a contravention of any published Department policy, procedure or
acceptable use guidelines and that contravention represents a failure to
safeguard Department information or information systems, resulting in actual or
elevated risk of damage to Department information systems, or actual or
elevated risk of compromise or loss of control of administratively controlled
Department information.
c.  An unclassified security incident may be
adjudicated as a violation or an infraction based on the risk and magnitude of
the harm to Department information or information systems or the risk of harm
to affected individuals.
12 FAM 553.1
Unclassified Security
Infractions
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
An unclassified security infraction is an incident
involving a contravention of law or Department policy that does not result in
actual damage to Department information systems, or actual compromise or loss
of control of administratively controlled Department information.  Infractions
are often committed inadvertently but may still put the information or
information system at risk.  Examples of unclassified security infractions
include but are not limited to:
(1)
Malware:
A user
unintentionally downloads malware to a Department information system but no
harm results;
(2)
Passwords
:
(a)  A user shares his or her Department password and no
harm results;
(b)  A system administrator sets a non-compliant password
for a general user;
(c)  A user writes down their password and does not
secure it properly (e.g., leaves in desk, tapes to monitor);
(d)  A user tries to learn another user’s password
by watching a user type their password; and
(e)  A user stores Department password on a Department
information system of the same classification, but no harm results.
(3)
Information:
(a)  An individual unintentionally leaves an SBU or
personally identifiable information (PII) document in a public space (e.g.,
airport, restaurant);
(b)  A user intentionally changes file permissions on a
SBU or PII document to allow an unauthorized user access; and
(c)  A user attempts to obtain unauthorized access to
data he/she is not authorized to view.
(4)
Baseline:
A user or
system administrator performs an unauthorized change to the configuration
baseline (e.g., downloads software to OpenNet that has not been approved by the
Configuration Change Board (CCB));
(5)
Other:
(a)  A user plugs an unapproved USB into a Department
network and no harm results;
(b)  A user uses their ClassNet account for personal use;
and
(c)  A user engages in personal use of Department
information systems in contravention of established policy.
12 FAM 553.2
Unclassified Security
Violations
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
An unclassified security violation is an incident
involving a contravention of law or Department policy resulting in actual or
imminent damage to Department information systems, or compromise or loss of
control of administratively controlled Department information.  Violations are
often committed knowingly, willfully, or negligently.  Examples of unclassified
security violations include but are not limited to:
(1)
Malware:
(a)  A user unknowingly downloads malware to a Department
information system, resulting in harm;
(b)  A user knowingly downloads malware to a Department
information system, regardless if harm results; and
(c)  A user knowingly causes the transmission of a
program, information, code, or command, and because of such conduct causes
damage (i.e., compromises integrity, availability) to a Department information
system.
(2)
Passwords:
(a)  A user shares a Department information system
password and this results in damage to the system or compromises information;
(b)  A system administrator sets a non-compliant password
for a system administrator account or uses the same password for multiple
Department accounts (e.g., for their OpenNet and administrator accounts);
(c)  A user who has elevated privileges (e.g., system
administrators or users with access to restricted applications) on their
account writes down the password and does not secure it properly (e.g., leaves
in desk, tapes to monitor);
(d)  A user stores Department password on a Department
information system, resulting in harm; and
(e)  A user stores Department password for a classified
information system on a Department unclassified information system.
(3)
Information:
(a)  An individual intentionally or negligently misuses a
bureau or office resource (e.g., the Bureau of Consular Affairs (CA) database)
which places PII at risk in violation of policies in place for that resource;
(b)  An individual engages in a deliberate or negligent
action that results in the unauthorized disclosure or loss of control of
administratively controlled information;
(c)  A user knowingly discards SBU or PII hardcopy
documents without shredding them; and
(d)  A user accesses data without authorization from the
appropriate data owner or investigative authority.
(4)
Baseline:
A user or
system administrator performs an unauthorized change to the configuration
baseline (e.g., downloads software to OpenNet without CCB approval), and that
action results in harm.
(5)
Unauthorized access:
(a)  A system administrator or user attempts to
intentionally bypass Department information system security software without
proper authorization;
(b)  A user removes, replaces, or physically tampers with
Department hardware/software without proper authorization;
(c)  A user logs into another user’s account
without their knowledge or without proper authorization;
(d)  A user knowingly accesses a Department information
system without proper authorization;
(e)  A user knowingly exceeds their access level on a
Department information system; and
(f)   A user intentionally accesses a Department
information system without authorization and as a result of such conduct causes
damage and/or loss.
(6)
Other:
A user plugs an
unapproved USB into a Department network and this results in damage to the
system or equipment or compromises information.
12 FAM 554
Reporting Security Incidents
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. Reporting potential security incidents is the
responsibility of every individual with access to information within the
Department or a Department information system.  When Department personnel or
other U.S. Government personnel under COM authority become aware of an improper
security practice that may result in a security incident, they must report
their concern to the DS/IS/APD, either via the regional security officer (RSO)
(if abroad) or via the bureau security officer (BSO) (if domestic).  Timely
reporting is imperative so that remedial action may be taken.  Reporting to
DS/IS/APD ensures that all potential security incidents can be properly
investigated and adjudicated.  This does not supersede any other reporting
obligations, such as requirements for certain incidents involving Department
systems to be reported to the information systems security officer (ISSO) in
accordance with
12 FAM 623.8
and
12 FAH-10 H-242.5
.
b. Security incidents may also be detected and reported
in the following manner:
(1)  During the normal course of their duties, ISSOs
will report anomalies and other suspicious activities to the Cyber Incident
Response Team (DS/CIRT).  DS/IS/APD coordinates daily with the DS/CIRT,
collecting and analyzing their data to determine which events should be
investigated as potential security incidents.  When potential security
incidents are identified, DS/IS/APD will contact the appropriate RSO or BSO and
advise them to initiate a security investigation;
(2)  When the RSO or BSO identifies a possible security
incident, they must immediately notify DS/IS/APD and, when appropriate, the
ISSO, to initiate a security incident investigation; and
(3)  When the ISSO identifies a possible security incident
they must immediately notify the RSO or BSO, as appropriate, and the Bureau of
Information Resources Management Directorate of Cyber Operations and the CIRT. 
Regional computer security officers may also report potential security
incidents to the ISSO and/or RSO, as appropriate.
c.  Incidents that are required by Federal mandate to
be reported to the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
are reported in accordance with
12
FAH-10 H-240
.
12 FAM 554.1
Reporting Security
Incidents Involving Non Department Employees and Contractors
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Report security incidents involving employees of
other Federal agencies or organizations and/or their contractors in the same
manner as described in
12 FAM 554
paragraph a and b.  The RSOs abroad report such security incidents on Forms
OF-117 and OF-118 and send the forms to DS/IS/APD.  DS/IS/APD coordinates any
further investigation necessary to complete the report of findings.  DS/IS/APD
must forward this report to the parent agency of the employee allegedly
responsible for the incident, and the parent agency handles the adjudication
and disposition.
b. Report security incidents involving Department
contractors in the same manner as described in
12 FAM 554
(a) and (b), except
DS/IS/APD forwards Forms OF-117 and OF-118 to the employer and sends a copy of
each form to the DS Office of Information Security’s Industrial Security
Division (DS/IS/IND).
12 FAM 554.2
Security Inspections
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Cleared U.S. citizen security personnel designated
by the Program Applications Division (DS/IS/APD), RSOs, Marine security guards,
and/or U.S. citizen contract guards are responsible for conducting security
inspections to ensure that classified information is properly protected.
b. Cleared security personnel must conduct such
security inspections routinely for all offices, buildings, or other facilities
that come under the jurisdiction of the Department worldwide, except those
exempted under interagency agreements.
c.  During regular business hours, employees have
authority to lock desks and credenzas to secure personal items.  After regular
business hours, employees must not lock desks, bookcases, and credenzas unless
the inspecting security office has a master key that affords access to perform
security inspections.
12 FAM 555
Investigating and Processing
Security Incidents
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. The RSO (abroad) or BSO (domestically), or DS/IS/APD
if no BSO has been assigned by APD, herein referred to as “the investigator,”
will investigate potential security incidents.  The investigator may require
technical assistance from the ISSO, system manager, the Directorate for Cyber
and Technology Security (DS/CTS) or others.  The investigation will attempt to
determine:
(1)  If a potential criminal act or instance of serious
employee misconduct has occurred (in which case the matter will immediately be
referred to the relevant DS Office);
(2)  The validity of the incident (does it meet the
definition of an unclassified security incident or classified security incident
as defined in
12 FAM 013
);
(3)  The gravity of the incident;
(4)  Mitigating and aggravating factors; and
(5)  Identity of individual(s) suspected of the
incident ("suspected individual").
b. In investigations where an investigator seeks to
interview an employee who is a member of a collective bargaining unit for which
a union representative has exclusive representation rights, and the employee
reasonably believes that the interview may result in disciplinary action
against him/her, the employee may request that such representative be included
in the interview and the investigating official shall comply.  This right is
known as the Weingarten Right.  When the employee invokes the Weingarten Right,
the investigating official will allow a reasonable amount of time for a union
representative to attend the interview.
c.  When the investigator has collected sufficient
information to conclude the investigation:
(1)  The investigator will prepare a Form OF-118,
Record of Incident, completing Part 1A or 1B (as applicable) in its entirety;
(2)  The investigator will present the Form OF-118 to
the suspected individual for execution of their portion of Part 2 –
Statement of Person Suspected of Incident
and their signature. 
At that time, the investigator will discuss the contents of the form and
potential ramifications.  Form OF-118 allows the suspected individual to
provide any mitigating factors, such as lack of culpability, which they believe
would be pertinent to the adjudication process;
(3)  The suspected individual shall return the signed
Form OF-118 to the investigator as soon as possible, but not later than three
working days.  If the suspected individual fails or refuses to sign the form
within three working days, the investigator will document this fact in the
security officer comments on Form OF-118 Part 3 -
Comments
of Unit/Post/Regional Security Officer
; and
(4)  The investigator will then give the Form OF-118 to
the suspected individual’s immediate supervisor for review and signature
within three working days.
d. After the supervisor has signed and returned the
form:
(1)  The investigator will complete Part 3; reporting
the results of the investigation in a brief summary, indicating whether the
suspected individual should be a held accountable for this incident; and
(2)  The investigator will submit their investigative
findings, any additional supporting documentation, and the Form OF-118 to
DS/IS/APD for adjudication.
e. At a constituent post, the post security officer
(PSO) may perform these duties on behalf of the RSO and forward all
investigative documentation and the Form OF-118 to the responsible RSO.
f.  The investigator must provide a copy of the
completed Form OF-118 to the individual(s) suspected of the incident.
12 FAM 556
Evaluation of Security
Incidents
(CT:DS-419;   09-28-2023)
a. Once the investigator has concluded the
investigation, they will provide the completed OF-118 and all related
information to DS/IS/APD for adjudication.
b. DS/IS/APD evaluates and adjudicates all reported
security incidents to determine:
(1)  Whether the reported incident is valid;
(2)  Whether the reported incident constitutes an
infraction or violation;
(3)  Whether the reported incident requires additional
documentation or coordinating action; and
(4)  Whether the individual suspected of the incident
is culpable.
c.  Adjudication has three possible outcomes: valid,
unfounded, and valid but not culpable.  DS/IS/APD performs the final
adjudication of all security incident investigations, including administrative
(i.e., non-criminal) investigations that the Office of Inspector General
conducts and investigations conducted by other DS investigative entities
involving the possible or actual failure to protect classified national
security information.  This requirement is not meant to include cases presented
to the Department of Justice
for criminal
prosecution.  After DS/IS/APD's affirmative adjudication that an employee
committed a valid security
incident
, DS/IS/APD
initiates any
12 FAM 558
administrative action when required.
d. A basic premise for adjudication is to hold
individuals responsible for their actions.  However, in certain incidents,
DS/IS/APD's adjudication may include having supervisors and/or system owners
held responsible for failing to provide effective organizational security
procedures.  This might occur, for example, when abnormal conditions interrupt
routine security procedures and supervisors  and/or system owners do not
implement remedial controls, or when the incident relates to controls that are
not normally the sole responsibility of an individual.
e. When the security incident investigation does not
warrant implicating a specific individual, DS/IS/APD may still adjudicate the
incident as valid without holding a specific individual accountable, provided
that:
(1)  Mitigating circumstances generally prevent
narrowing responsibility to an individual; and
(2)  The DS/IS/APD chief approves this type of
adjudication.
f.  Upon completion of the adjudication, DS/IS/APD will
notify in writing the culpable individual(s) of the adjudication results
specific to them, as well as appeal options.  DS/IS/APD will also notify the
appropriate RSO, BSO, or principal unit security officer (PUSO), who will
provide a copy of the adjudication to the individual’s supervisor.
g. Incidents involving potential criminal activity such
as the deliberate introduction of risk or damage to Department information
systems or networks or any other criminal act, or deliberate or negligent
contraventions of the Privacy Act of 1974, will be immediately forwarded to the
Office of Special Investigation (DS/DO/OSI) for consideration and may be
subject to criminal prosecution.
12 FAM 557
Appeals
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. An individual found culpable in a valid security
incident may appeal either the validity of the incident or their culpability in
the incident by submitting the appeal to the division chief, DS/IS/APD.  This
appeal request must be submitted in writing within 10 working days after
receiving written notification of the DS/IS/APD adjudication decision.  An
individual may request an extension of time in which to submit an appeal, but
that extension request must be submitted within the 10-working day timeframe.
NOTE:
The statement
provided on form OF-118 is considered pre-adjudicative and considered part of
the investigation.  It does not constitute an appeal even if it states an
intent to appeal.
b. DS/IS/APD will forward for decision any appeal along
with the complete investigative record to the director of the Office of
Information Security (DS/SI/IS).  The director of DS/SI/IS will provide a final
decision and no further appeals are available.
12 FAM 558
Referrals for DISCIPLINARY
and personnel Security Action
12 FAM 558.1
Referral for Actions
Related to Infractions (U.S. Direct Hire Employees)
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Upon adjudication of a valid security infraction(s),
and affirmation of that adjudication following any appeal, DS/IS/APD will take
the following actions:
(1)  If the infraction is the employee’s first
incident (which includes both infractions and violations; see
12 FAM 552
paragraph c and
12 FAM 553
. paragraph c) in the
current five-year moving window (see
12
FAM 013
for definition), DS/IS/APD will send a letter of notification to
the employee, requiring a signed reply acknowledging that the employee
understands the policies contravened in the incident and the potential
consequences of future security incidents, including referral to the Bureau of
Global Talent Management (GTM) for appropriate disciplinary action, and the DS
Office of Personnel Security and Suitability (DS/SI/PSS) for action relating to
the employee’s security clearance.  The RSO or PSO abroad, or BSO, PUSO,
or unit security officer (USO) domestically, must ensure the employee receives
appropriate remedial security instruction;
(2)  If the infraction is the employee’s second
incident (infraction or violation) in the current five-year window, the Office
of Information Security (DS/SI/IS) will send a letter to the employee that
describes the actions DS and GTM will take in the event of future security
incidents.  This requires a signed reply from the employee indicating they
understand the respective policies and consequences of future security
incidents.  The RSO or PSO abroad, or BSO or USO domestically, must provide the
employee with an additional appropriate security briefing;
(3)  If the infraction is the employee’s third
(or more) incident (infraction or violation) in the current five-year window,
DS/IS/APD will refer the complete security incident history of a Department
Foreign Service (FS) or Civil Service (CS) employee to:
(a)  The GTM Office of Employee Relations (GTM/ER) for
appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with
3
FAM 4300
or
3
FAM 4500
; and
(b)  DS/SI/PSS for action relating to the
employee’s security clearance.  DS/SI/PSS may issue a letter of
notification, review the security clearance of the individual, and/or suspend
or revoke the individual’s security clearance.
NOTE
:  As set forth in
12 FAM 558.2
, the final
adjudication (and affirmation of that adjudication following any appeal) of a
single violation will result in referral of an individual’s complete
security incident history to GTM/ER and DS/SI/PSS; only infractions require
three incidents (infractions or violations) within the five-year window to
trigger referral.
12 FAM 558.2
Referral for Actions
Related to Violations (U.S. Direct Hire Employees)
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Upon adjudication of any valid security violation,
and affirmation of that adjudication following any appeal, DS/IS/APD will refer
the complete security incident history of a Department FS or CS employee to:
(1)  GTM/ER for appropriate disciplinary action in
accordance with
3
FAM 4300
or
3
FAM 4500
; and
(2)  DS/SI/PSS for action relating to the
employee’s security clearance.  DS/SI/PSS may issue a letter of
notification, review the security clearance of the violator, and/or suspend or
revoke the violator’s security clearance.
12 FAM 558.3
Referral for Actions
Related to Security Incidents Locally Employed (LE) Staff
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
For LE Staff and locally hired-third party contractors,
DS/IS/APD will refer the complete security incident history to post’s HR
officer for appropriate disciplinary action.  This security incident history
will be sent to the RSO for appropriate action regarding the staff's LE Staff's
security certification.  Discipline should be consistent with
3 FAM 7720
, 7730, and local law.
12 FAM 558.4
Referral for Actions
Related to Security Incidents (Other Agencies’ Employees)
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
Security incidents involving employees of other Federal
agencies or organizations or their contractors are reported, investigated, and
adjudicated in the same manner as described for Department employees in
12 FAM 556
.  DS/IS/APD will notify
the individual’s parent agency of any valid adjudication.
12 FAM 558.5
Referral for Actions
Related to Security Incidents Personal Services Contractors (PSC) and Third
Party Contractors (TPC)
(CT:DS-378;   02-24-2022)
a. Security incidents involving PSCs and TPCs are
reported, investigated, and adjudicated in the same manner as described for
Department employees in
12 FAM 556
. 
DS/IS/APD will notify DS/SI/PSS and the Industrial Security Division
(DS/IS/IND) of any valid adjudication.
b. DS/IS/IND will advise the Department’s
contracting officer's representative of the nature and seriousness of the incident
and provide details of any derogatory information to the cognizant security
clearance investigative authority.
12 FAM 559
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION
FRAMEWORK: Record Keeping
(CT:DS-398;   02-24-2023)
a. DS/IS/APD will maintain incident investigation and
adjudication files and documentation on all security incidents, including
records of involved individuals.  Information from these files will be made
available to the Director General of the Foreign Service and director of Global
Talent Management or other appropriate Department officials with a need-to-know
for deliberation of nominations or other personnel decisions.  Security
incident information will be included in background investigation reports on
candidates for Presidential appointments and may be disseminated to others
consistent with the Privacy Act and other governing law.  DS/IS/APD will retain
these records in accordance with Department Records Disposition Schedules and
U.S. National Archives and Records Administration requirements.
b. At posts abroad, the RSO will retain a record of
local staff security incidents in their security certification investigative
file or in resolve.
c.  An individual’s security incident history may
result in the curtailment of a current assignment or denial of future
assignments.
d. Foreign Service Selection Boards receive a copy of
the current security incident history report for each employee competing for
promotion to grade FS-01 and above, senior performance pay, and/or Presidential
awards.  The report is limited to incidents adjudicated as valid that occurred
within the previous 5-year period.  The senior coordinator for Security
Infrastructure (DS/SI) provides the entire history to the Office of the
Director General for Presidential nominations.  Data provided for each incident
is limited to:
(1)  A tracking number;
(2)  Office or post where the incident took place;
(3)  Name of the employee involved in the incident;
(4)  Whether the incident was an infraction or a
violation;
(5)  Date and time of the incident;
(6)  Date Diplomatic Security (DS) completed the Form
OF-118, Report of Incident;
(7)  Status of the incident;
(8)  Level of classified material involved; and
(9)  A brief description of the incident, e.g.,
unsecured documents or unsecured hard drive.
e. Department and tenant agency employees and
contractors may request a copy of their entire security incident history, at
any time, via the “Service Now” Portal.  If OpenNet access is
unavailable, requests may also be submitted to APD via email to DSAPD@state.gov.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)