UNCLASSIFIED (U)
12 FAM 500
INFORMATION SECURITY
12 FAM 510
Safeguarding National Security and other Sensitive
information
(CT:DS-415;   08-29-2023)
(Office of Origin:  DS/SI/IS)
12 FAM 511
POLICY AND PURPOSE
12 FAM 511.1
Applicability
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
a. Unless otherwise noted,
12
FAM 500
applies to all national security and sensitive information that is
owned by, originated by, produced by or for, or under the control of Foreign
Affairs Agencies, at any and all Department-controlled locations regardless of
physical form.  For purposes of this FAM chapter, Foreign Affairs Agencies
include:
(1)  The Department of State;
(2)  The United States Agency for International
Development (USAID);
(3)  The United States International Development
Finance Corporation (DFC);
(4)  The Trade and Development Program (USTDA); and
(5)  All other executive branch agency personnel
located under the jurisdiction of a chief of mission.
b. Nothing in these regulations supersedes any
requirement related to “Restricted Data” in the Atomic Energy Act
of August 30, 1954, as amended, or Department of Energy regulations.
c.  Sensitive compartmented information (SCI), special
access programs (SAPs), and communications security (COMSEC) information must
be processed and controlled in accordance with applicable national authorities,
directives, and policies. (See
12 FAM
530.
)
12 FAM 511.2
Authorities
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, AID, DFC, USTDA)
a. Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
b. Executive Order 13526, Classified National Security
Information.
c.  Information Security Oversight Office
(ISOO)—32 CFR Parts 2001 and 2003, Directive No. 1.
d. The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism
Act of 1986, Public Law No. 99-399, codified at 22 U.S.C. 4802, et seq., as
amended.
12 FAM 512
IMPLEMENTATION AND OVERSIGHT
RESPONSIBILITIES
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
a. E.O. 13526 provides that the Director of the
Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) must issue directives necessary to
implement the Order, under the direction of the Archivist of the United States
and in consultation with the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs.
b. The ISOO Director has issued a directive (32 CFR
Part 2001) that sets forth, in detail, procedures for implementing various
provisions of the Order.  This subchapter reflects many of the requirements of
the ISOO directive.
c.  Code of Federal Regulations may be found at the
National Archives web site.
12 FAM 512.1
Responsibilities
12 FAM 512.1-1
Senior Agency
Officials
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
a. Individuals occupying the following positions are
designated as senior agency officials for purposes of this chapter:
(1)  Department of State:
(a)  The Secretary has designated the Under Secretary for
Management (M) to be the Senior Agency Official.
M
further designated that the Bureau of Administration (A) and the Bureau of
Diplomatic Security (DS) share the responsibility for implementation of E.O.
13526.
(b)  DS is responsible for all aspects of protecting and
safeguarding classified information and special access programs, to include
SCI.
(c)  A Bureau is responsible for other aspects of
implementing E.O. 13526, including the classification, declassification, and
marking of information classified under the Order as well as training and
guidance in classification and declassification. (See
5 FAM 480.
)
(2)  USAID:  USAID Office of Security;
(3)  DFC:  Vice President, Office of Administrative
Services; and
(4)  USTDA:  Assistant Director for Management.
b. Senior agency officials have the primary
responsibility of overseeing their respective agency’s information
security program. This includes the requirement to:
(1)  Ensure the protection from unauthorized disclosure
of classified information, including intelligence information;
(2)  Review proposed classified disclosures of an
exceptional nature bearing upon issues of concern to the Congress and the
public;
(3)  Establish a security awareness program to educate
employees concerning their duties and responsibilities with regard to the
requirements of E.O. 13526;
(4)  Receive and take appropriate action on suggestions
and complaints with respect to the agency’s administration of the
program;
(5)  Provide guidance concerning corrective or
disciplinary action in unusually important cases involving unauthorized
disclosure; and
(6)  Maintain liaison with the Director, ISOO, and
report as required by E.O. 13526.
12 FAM 512.1-2
Supervisors
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
The responsibility for safeguarding classified information
rests with each supervisor to the same degree that the supervisor is charged
with functional responsibility for the organizational unit.  While certain
employees may be assigned specific security responsibilities, such as Top
Secret control officer or unit security officer, it is nevertheless the basic
responsibility of supervisors to ensure that classified material entrusted to
their organizational unit is handled in accordance with the procedures required
by these regulations.  Each supervisor should ensure that no single employee is
assigned an unreasonable amount of security responsibilities in addition to his
or her usual administrative or functional duties.
12 FAM 512.1-3
Employees
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
Each employee having access to and/or possession of
classified material is responsible for maintaining the security of such
material.  For the purposes of this policy, the term “employee”
includes anyone who is certified and/or authorized access to classified
information by virtue of a contract, consulting agreement, detail, grant,
appointment to an advisory panel, or otherwise. Each employee must meet the
requirements of a “cleared U.S. citizen” (see
12 FAM 013
) for access to classified
information.
12 FAM 512.1-
4
Regional, Post, Bureau, or Unit Security
Officers
(CT:DS-415;   08-29-2023)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
Employees assigned as regional, post, bureau or unit
security officers have the supervisory and/or the oversight responsibility to
ensure that classified material entrusted to their organizational unit is
handled in accordance with the procedures prescribed in this volume.  (See
12 FAM 423.
)
12 FAM 512.2
Evaluations, Surveys,
and Inspections
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
(Uniform State, USAID, DFC, USTDA)
The executive director of each bureau and each regional
security officer (RSO) must maintain the program designed to ensure compliance
with the provisions of these regulations.  The executive director is
responsible for ensuring that the bureau has a designated security officer and
must work with that officer to ensure all employees are aware of the security
requirements.  Within USAID, the Office of Security is responsible for
evaluating the effectiveness of the USAID Information Security Program and
ensuring that all regulatory requirements are met.
12 FAM 513
Insider Threat PROGRAM
12 FAM 513.1
Policy and Purpose
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
a. Executive Order 13587, Structural Reforms to Improve
the Security of Classified Networks and the Responsible Sharing and
Safeguarding of Classified Information, dated October 7, 2011, requires all
U.S. Government executive branch departments and agencies to establish an
Insider Threat Program (ITP) for deterring, detecting, and mitigating insider
threats, including the safeguarding of classified information from
exploitation, compromise, or other unauthorized disclosure.
b. An insider is defined by the National Insider Threat
Policy and Minimum Standards as, “[a]ny person with authorized access to
any United States Government resource to include personnel, facilities,
information, equipment, networks or systems.”  This includes employees,
defined as, “a person, other than the President and Vice President,
employed by, detailed or assigned to, a department or agency, including members
of the Armed Forces; an expert or consultant to a department or agency; an industrial
or commercial contractor, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee of a
department or agency, including all subcontractors; a personal services
contractor; or any other category of person who acts for or on behalf of a
department or agency as determined by the appropriate department or agency
head.”
c.  Insider threat is defined by the National Insider
Threat Policy and Minimum Standards as, “[t]he threat that an insider
will use her/his authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the
security of the United States.  This threat can include damage through
espionage, terrorism, unauthorized disclosure of national security information,
or through the loss or degradation of departmental resources or
capabilities.”  As noted in the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2017, insider threat may also include a person who has, or once
had, authorized access and wittingly or unwittingly commits “a
destructive act, which may include physical harm to another in the
workplace.”  The ITP, therefore, focuses on the trusted insider who
misuses his or her access to do damage to the Department.
d. The purpose of the ITP is to effectively and
efficiently:
(1)  Increase the awareness of current and former
employees to the vulnerabilities associated with the insider threat;
(2)  Deter employees from becoming insider threats;
(3)  Detect employees who pose an insider threat risk;
(4)  Provide enhanced protection of classified and
sensitive but unclassified information;
(5)  Identify the threat of or acts of workplace
violence and coordinate with the appropriate office to prevent or mitigate that
threat;
(6)  Identify employees on the critical path (“A
common set of factors and a similar pattern of individual and organizational
behavior,” Application of the Critical-Path Method, Shaw and Sellers
2015) and coordinate with the appropriate office to provide mitigation methods
to avoid incidents; and
(7)  Mitigate the risks to the Department’s
personnel, facilities, and information using training and administrative
measures; and by making referrals to the appropriate office.
e. The ITP is based on the key pillars of:
(1)  Deterring harmful behavior;
(2)  Detecting anomalous activity or conduct;
(3)  Mitigating through data sources; and
(4)  Utilizing these data points for analytical and
response support.
f.  To ensure ITP activities are conducted in
accordance with legal authorities
and to
ensure that any legal, privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties issues are
appropriately addressed, Department legal counsel and privacy and civil
liberties officials will be consulted regularly.  The acquisition and use of
personal information to detect and prevent insider threats is authorized under
the E.O. 13587, the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards, and
other national policies.  Collected information is subject to oversight by
civil liberties and privacy authorities to ensure that personally identifiable
information is only gathered and used for legitimate and authorized purposes;
such information must be strictly controlled within the ITP and in accordance
with all record retention policies.
12 FAM 513.2
Applicability
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
The ITP authorities are applicable to all Department
personnel, to include employees, interns, contractors, and anyone under chief
of mission (COM) authority, as well as any individuals who access Department
facilities and/or information.  The goal of the ITP is to manage the risk of
harm by an insider.
12 FAM 513.3
Authorities
(CT:DS-373;   01-25-2022)
The ITP implements the following national policies,
orders, directives, and memoranda, and refers to the following guides in
implementing the program:
(1)  Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act
of 1986, Public Law No. 99-399, codified at 22 U.S.C. 4801, et seq. as amended;
(2)  44 U.S. Code Chapter 35, Subchapter II —
Information Security, as amended;
(3)  18 U.S. Code Chapter 37 — Espionage and
Censorship, as amended;
(4)  Section 811 of the Intelligence Authorization Act
for FY 1995, Public Law Number 103-359, 50 U.S.C. 402a;
(5)  Executive Order 13587, Structural Reforms to
Improve the Security of Classified Networks and the Responsible Sharing and
Safeguarding of Classified Information, dated October 7, 2011;
(6)  Executive Order 13526, Classified National
Security Information, dated December 29, 2009;
(7)  Executive Order 13467, Reforming Processes Related
to Suitability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contract Employees, and
Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information, dated June
30, 2008, as amended;
(8)  Executive Order 12968, Access to Classified
Information, dated August 2, 1995, as amended;
(9)  Executive Order 12829, National Industrial
Security Program, dated January 6, 1993;
(10) White House Memorandum, National Insider Threat
Policy and Minimum Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs,
dated November 21, 2012;
(11) White House Memorandum, Early Detection of
Espionage and Other Intelligence Activities Through Identification and Referral
of Anomalies, August 23, 1996;
(12) Presidential Decision Directive/NSC-12 Security
Awareness and Reporting Foreign Contacts, August 5, 1993;
(13) National Insider Threat Task Force (NITTF), 2014
Guide to Accompany the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards,
dated September 2014;
(14) NITTF 2017 Insider Threat Guide:  A Compendium of
Best Practices to Accompany the National Insider Threat Minimum Standards,
dated 2017;
(15) NITTF Insider Threat Program Maturity Framework,
dated November 2018; and
(16) Committee on National Security Systems Directive
(CNSSD) No. 504, Directive on Protecting National Security Systems from Insider
Threat, dated February 4, 2014.
12 FAM 513.4
Program Management
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Office of the Under Secretary for Management (M)
designated the Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) as the primary Department
entity for execution and oversight of E.O. 13587
and
the Insider Threat Program (ITP).  The DS Assistant Secretary (A/S) designated
the Deputy Assistant Secretary (DAS) for Cyber and Technology Security (DS/CTS),
DAS for Domestic Operations (DS/DO), and the Senior Coordinator for Security
Infrastructure (DS/SI) as the Senior Officials with the principal
responsibility to provide management, accountability, resources, and oversight
of the ITP in accordance with E.O. 13587.
12 FAM 513.4-1
Senior
Officials’ Responsibilities
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Senior Officials will:
a. Establish, maintain, and update a comprehensive ITP
and Insider Threat implementation plan for the Department, and ensure the
policies and procedures are in accordance with national policies and interagency
guidance;
b. Provide annual reports to Department leadership on
the progress and status of the ITP.  This report should include:
(1)  Accomplishments;
(2)  Resource allocation;
(3)  Program goals;
(4)  Challenges; and/or
(5)  Metrics.
c.  Establish oversight mechanisms and procedures to
ensure proper handling of insider threat related information, including
restricting access to only authorized personnel who require the information to
perform their authorized duties;
d. Provide program management oversight, approve/deny
recommendations from the Insider Threat Analytical Cell (ITAC), other matters
presented during the Insider Threat Hub, or directly from the Insider Threat Program
Director; and
e. Direct the Insider Threat Program Director to manage
issues under the mission, vision, and authorities as they pertain to E.O.
13587, as well as oversight and management of staffing, resources, policy, and
other logistical and operational aspects of the program.
12 FAM 513.4-2
Insider Threat
Program Responsibilities
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Insider Threat Program will:
(1)  Be responsible for the day-to-day operations of
the ITP, including deterrence, detection, and mitigation of insider threat related
issues;
(2)  Provide oversight in the conduct of Insider Threat
Inquiries and ensure all matters are in compliance with applicable laws and
policies, including but not limited to privacy and civil liberty protections,
records retention and documentation, and appropriate Department and Bureau
responsibilities;
(3)  Represent the Bureau and/or Department on matters
as they relate to the Insider Threat Program;
(4)  Represent the Department on interagency forums
related to ITP;
(5)  Act as an advocate and liaison for the program to
public and private partners to ensure development and collaboration efforts;
(6)  Ensure compliance with all Insider Threat-related
policies, to include E.O. 13587, the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum
Standards, and any current or future mandates;
(7)  Manage the operations of the Insider Threat
Analytical Cell; and
(8)  Report regularly to the Senior Officials and other
Department Leadership regarding ITP policies, procedures, efforts, and
inquiries for oversight and support.
12 FAM 513.4-3
Insider Threat
Program Board
(CT:DS-407;   06-16-2023)
a. The Insider Threat Program Board is comprised of
representatives from the following bureaus or offices:
(1)  Bureau of Administration (A);
(2)  Diplomatic Security (DS);
(3)  Global Talent Management (GTM);
(4)  Intelligence and Research (INR);
(5)  Information Resource Management (IRM);
(6)  Office of the Legal Adviser (L);
(7)  Bureau of Medical Services (MED);
(8)  Office of the Inspector General (OIG); and
(9)  Other Departmental offices and U.S. agencies as necessary.
b. The Insider Threat Program Board will:
(1)  Provide policy and practical advice and guidance
to the Senior Officials;
(2)  Ensure that policies, guidance, and operational
activities are conducted in accordance with standing legal and privacy laws,
regulations, and directives; and
(3)  Review programmatic and operational issues
discovered during the course of Insider Threat inquiries and propose
resolutions.
12 FAM 513.4-4
Insider Threat Hub
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
a. The Insider Threat Hub is the centralized board to
receive briefings on Insider Threat
Inquiries
and review mitigation recommendations from the program director.
b. The Insider Threat Hub is comprised of the Insider
Threat Senior Officials, Insider Threat Program Director, ITP staff, and
stakeholders from the following offices:
(1)  Bureau of Administration (A);
(2)  Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS);
(3)  Bureau of Global Talent Management (GTM);
(4)  Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR);
(5)  Bureau of Information Resource Management (IRM);
(6)  Office of the Legal Adviser (L);
(7)  Office of Civil Rights (OCR); and
(8)  Bureau of Medical Services (MED).
c.  Based on the nature of the incident, the
stakeholders may recommend additional action, as it relates to the scope of
their office or program.
12 FAM 513.4-5
Insider Threat
Analytical Cell
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Insider Threat Analytical Cell (ITAC) will:
a. Be responsible for intake of insider threat reports
of anomalous behavior and/or activity, documentation of actions, analysis of
relevant information, and recommendation to the Insider Threat Program Director
and/or Senior Officials;
b. Act as the initial processing point for potential
insider threat information gathered through reporting capabilities and data sources;
c.  Use reporting capabilities and data sources to
detect anomalous incidents and behavior; document activities and provide
analysis through the use of designated data sources outlined in
12 FAM 513.3-7
;
d. Refer all data and analytics to the appropriate action
office to support the mitigation process for anomalous insider threat
behaviors, including recommendations for action to expand the inquiry to
resolve the inquiry;
e. Maintain open communication with action offices to
provide and receive regular updates on inquiries of insider threat behavior
and/or incidents, as determined by the action office director;
f.  Meet regularly with other offices to provide
updates and recommend actions on insider threat inquiries;
g. Coordinate with subject matter experts trained in relevant
topics and regulations as they relate to insider threat issues, including but
not limited to the following areas of expertise:
(1)  Counterintelligence, law enforcement, and security
fundamentals;
(2)  Administrative and criminal misconduct;
(3)  Department procedures and policies;
(4)  Applicable laws and regulations regarding the
gathering, integration, retention, and disposition of records and documents
collected through the insider threat inquiry process;
(5)  Applicable civil liberties and privacy laws,
regulations, and policies; and
(6)  The investigative referral requirements based on the
authorities of other Department offices and government agencies.
h. The ITAC will be comprised of the Insider Threat Program
Director, ITP Staff, and stakeholders from the following offices:
(1)  Office of Counterintelligence (DS/DO/CI);
(2)  Office of Special Investigations (DS/DO/OSI);
(3)  Office of Protective Intelligence (DS/TIA/PII);
(4)  Office of Personnel Security and Suitability
(DS/SI/PSS);
(5)  Office of Cyber Threats and Investigations
(DS/CTS/CTI);
(6)  Office of the Legal Adviser (L/M/DS); and
(7)  Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR).
12 FAM 513.4-6
Insider Threat
Deterrence Program
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Insider Threat Deterrence Program will:
a. Develop and implement awareness and education
materials and training on insider threat related issues for personnel;
b. Provide in-person awareness briefings and
computer-based trainings, to promote detection and reporting of insider threat
related activities or incidents;
c.  Coordinate with appropriate offices on
Department-wide required trainings, to include but not limited to
Counterintelligence (CI) and Insider Threat Awareness Training and
Cybersecurity Awareness Training; and
d. Act as a liaison with the NITTF, U.S. Government
agencies, and other public/private sector partners on educational and awareness
related materials.
12 FAM 513.4-7
Access to
Information
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Insider Threat Program will:
a. Collaborate with relevant Department bureaus,
offices, and partners to request all relevant data sources necessary to perform
insider threat analysis;
b. Facilitate the sharing of data sources for insider
threat inquiries and establish procedures for obtaining this information,
consistent with applicable law, policy, and regulation.  Data sources include:
(1)  Department Records to include human resources
and/or security records, as determined by the office director;
(2)  User activity monitoring data collected and
analyzed to assist in identifying abnormal behavior related to the actions of a
workstation user, including the use and access to applications, services,
networks, and data in the IT environment;
(3)  All relevant network information to include but
not limited to:
(a)  Personnel usernames;
(b)  Levels of network access;
(c)  Unauthorized use of removable media;
(d)  Network or system logs; and
(e)  Other data relevant to the insider threat inquiry.
(4)  Open source information - Publicly available
information acquired to mitigate an insider threat inquiry specifically to
include but not limited to:
(a)  Social media activity;
(b)  Blogs or electronic postings; and
(c)  News outlet reports.
NOTE
:  This does not
include unauthorized data mining of information and is in accordance with
current and applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policy;
c.  Establish procedures for access requests, and the
protection of the information received, by the ITP involving particularly
sensitive or protected information, which may require access be provided upon
the request of the Senior Officials, such as:
(1)  Medical records; and
(2)  Information held by special access, law
enforcement, inspector general, or other investigative sources or programs.
d. Ensure the ITP has timely access, as otherwise
permitted, to available U.S. Government intelligence and counterintelligence
reporting information and analytic products pertaining to adversarial threats.
12 FAM 513.4-8
Monitoring User
Activity on Networks
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The Insider Threat Program shall:
(1)  Utilize and ensure maintenance of a capability to
monitor user activity on Department-managed networks at all security domains to
detect activity indicative of insider threat behavior, in consultation with the
Office of the Legal Adviser (L) and the privacy office;
(2)  Implement agreements with service providers within
the Department to provide timely and accurate reports acquired from the user
activity monitoring (UAM) to the ITP;
(3)  Ensure adherence to policies and procedures for
properly protecting, interpreting, storing, and limiting dissemination of UAM
information and UAM methods to authorized personnel;
(4)  Ensure, together with the relevant offices, all users
with access to Department systems
are
properly notified and have acknowledged their activity on any agency network or
system, to include on Government portable electronic devices, is subject to
monitoring and could be used against them in a criminal, security, or
administrative proceeding; and
(5)  Ensure classified and unclassified network banners
are employed within the Department, informing users that the network is being
monitored for lawful U.S. Government-authorized purposes, which can result in
criminal, security, or administrative actions.
12 FAM 513.4-9
Protective
Measures for Sensitive Data Collection
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
All ITP employees, stakeholders, and partners shall ensure
the protection of all information, documents, files, and other materials
related to an insider threat concern.  This includes subject and source
identity, accusations of concerning behavior, acknowledgement of other office
investigation, and anything potentially damaging to the process, inquiry, or
subject:
(1)  All information and supporting materials obtained
and/or documented in the course of an insider threat action should be held in
accordance with current and applicable laws, rules, regulations, and policy;
(2)  Oversight mechanisms and procedures shall be
followed to ensure the proper handling and safeguarding of records and data,
including restriction of access to sensitive information, and will be shared
only with ITP employees, stakeholders, and partners with a need-to-know to
perform their authorized functions;
(3)  ITP policies and procedures will be approved and
overseen by the Senior Officials, in coordination with L, Administration
Bureau's Privacy Division (A/GIS/IPS/PRV), and any other relevant office to
confirm that legal, civil liberties, and privacy protections are properly
incorporated and adhered to by ITP employees and stakeholders; and
(4)  Any information collected or created by the ITP
will follow the Department’s record retention policies to ensure the
proper protection, as outlined in
5
FAM 430
and
5 FAM 460
and the Department’s System of Record
Notices (SORNs).
12 FAM 513.5
Employee
Responsibilities
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
All employees have a responsibility and obligation to
protect Department personnel, information, facilities and systems and should be
aware of the following:
(1)  Indicators of insider threat behavior, to include
but not limited to:
(a)  Inappropriately seeks or obtains proprietary or
classified information on subjects not related to their work duties;
(b)  Unnecessarily copies material;
(c)  Remotely accesses the computer network while on
vacation, sick leave, or at other odd times;
(d)  Disregards Department policies;
(e)  Works odd hours without authorization;
(f)   Unreported foreign contacts (particularly with
foreign government officials, intelligence officials, or critical threat
nationals) or unreported or frequent overseas travel;
(g)  Unexplained affluence; buys things that they cannot
afford on their household income;
(h)  Overwhelmed by life crises or career disappointments;
and
(i)   Concern they are being investigated.
(2)  The importance of detecting insider threats prior
to an incident occurring;
(3)  Procedures to report such behavior;
(a)  OpenNet (Unclassified) E-mail:
InsiderThreatReporting@state.gov;
(b)  ClassNet E-mail:
InsiderThreatReporting@state.sgov.gov;
(c)  JWICS E-mail: InsiderThreatReporting@ic.state.gov;
(d)  ITP Intranet Site Reporting Form;
(e)  In-person Reports to ITP; and
(f)   Reports of behavior to security officer, requesting
referral to insider threat.
(4)  The importance of reporting other suspected
activity to the appropriate action office or security officer, requesting
referral to the appropriate action office, i.e.:
(a)  Employee Misconduct: Office of Special
Investigations (DS/DO/OSI);
(b)  Espionage: Office of Counterintelligence;
(c)  Threats, or potential threats, to Department personnel:
Office of Protective Intelligence (DS/TIA/PII).
(5)  Methodologies used by adversaries to recruit
trusted insiders and collect classified information; and
(6)  Security reporting requirements, including:
(a)  Foreign Travel and Contact Reporting (
12 FAM 262.2
);
(b)  Personnel Security and Suitability reportable
actions (
12 FAM 270
).
12 FAM 513.6
Employee Training and
Awareness
(CT:DS-401;   03-08-2023)
The ITP will ensure the following training and awareness
requirements:
(1)  Mandatory insider threat awareness training will,
at a minimum, be provided to all employees within 30 days of entering on duty
(EOD) or following the granting of access to classified information, and
annually thereafter, and will address the following:
(a)  Explain the significance and impact of Executive
Order 13587;
(b)  Explain what constitutes an insider threat;
(c)  Explain why it is important to detect potential
insider threats;
(d)  Identify the indicators of insider threat behavior;
(e)  Identify the phases of recruiting trusted insiders;
and
(f)   Explain the procedures to report a suspected
insider threat.
(2)  An internal network site is established and made
available to all authorized users of the network to provide insider threat
reference material, including indicators of insider threat behavior, applicable
reporting requirements and procedures, and provide a secure electronic means of
reporting matters to the ITP office;
(3)  In-person briefings for Department bureaus and
offices, upon request, to provide in-depth coverage of the Program and mission;
(4)  Assistance to overseas and domestic posts and
facilities to provide strong defensive educational programs for employees and
others under COM authority; and
(5)  The Department continues to expand, enhance, and
augment its threat briefings and related user awareness products on the nature
and scope of insider threats.
12 FAM 514
through 519 UNASSIGNED
UNCLASSIFIED (U)