EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503 
May 21, 2019 
M-19-17 
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 
FROM: 
Russell T. Vought 
Acting Director 
SUBJECT: 
Enabling Mission Delivery through Improved Identity, Credential, and Access 
Management 
This memorandum sets forth the Federal Government's1 Identity, Credential, and Access 
Management (ICAM) policy and includes the following sections: 
I. 
Contextualizing Identity in the Federal Government 
II. 
Managing Identities, Credentials, and Access in Modern Government 
III. 
Adapting the Government's Approach to Homeland Security Presidential 
Directive 12 (HSPD-12) 
IV. 
Shifting the Operating Model beyond the Perimeter 
V. 
Improving Digital Interactions with the American Public 
VI. 
Enumerating Government-wide Responsibilities 
I. Contextualizing Identity in the Federal Government 
For the purposes of 
this policy, "identity" refers to the unique representation of 
a subject, 
for example, a person, a device, a non-person entity (NPE), or an automated technology, that is 
engaged in a transaction involving at least one Federal subject or a Federal resource, for 
example, Federal information, a Federal information system,2 or a Federal facility or secured 
area. This policy may refer to identity in two contexts: (1) Federal enterprise identity or (2) 
public identity. Federal enterprise identity, or, simply, enterprise identity, refers to the unique 
representation of an employee, a contractor, an enterprise user, such as a mission or business 
partner, a device, or a technology that a Federal agency manages to achieve its mission and 
business objectives. Public identity refers to the unique representation of 
a subject that a Federal 
agency interacts with, but does not directly manage, in order to achieve its mission and business 
objectives. Public identity may also refer to a mechanism of 
trust used to render services to the 
American public. 
1 This memorandum is not applicable to national security systems (NSS) as defined in 44 U.S.C. § 3552 (Federal 
Information Security Modernization Act of2014), although 0MB encourages owners and operators ofNSS to 
utilize the requirements in this document where appropriate. 
2 Pursuant to 0MB Circular A-130, "information system" means a discrete set of 
information resources organized 
for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of 
information. 
II. Managing Identities, Credentials, and Access in Modern Government 
Advances in technology have enabled more digital interactions and business transactions, 
offering the Federal Government an opportunity for faster, more reliable connections and 
operations. In conjunction with this opportunity, however, a new set of 
challenges has emerged, 
because information about individuals has become more widely available through social media 
and breaches of 
personally identifiable information (PII).3 In favor of 
this opportunity, the 
Federal Government continues to refresh its digital infrastructure through comprehensive efforts 
focused on cybersecurity, procurement, and management of 
a workforce capable of operating 
modem, frequently cloud-based environments. To address the challenges that have emerged 
alongside this opportunity, embedded within these efforts is an intensified focus on risk 
management and the adoption of 
processes, policies, and solutions that enhanc~ privacy and 
security and that mitigate the degradation of 
operational service delivery. Accordingly, identity 
management has become even more critical to the Federal Government's successful delivery of 
mission and business promises to the American public. As such, through this Federal ICAM 
policy, the Government is enacting a common vision for identity as an enabler of 
mission 
delivery, trust, and safety of 
the Nation. 
To ensure secure and efficient operations, agencies of 
the Federal Government must be 
able to identify, credential, monitor, and manage subjects thataccess Federal resources, 
including information, information systems, facilities, and secured areas across their respective 
enterprises. In particular, how agencies conduct identity proofing, establish enterprise digital 
identities, and adopt sound processes for authentication and access control significantly affects 
the security and delivery of 
their services, as well as individuals' privacy. 4 
Furthermore, in line with the Federal Government's updated approach to modernization, 
it is essential that agencies' ICAM strategies and solutions shift from the obsolete Levels of 
Assurance (LOA)5 model towards a new model informed by risk management perspectives, the 
Federal resource accessed, and outcomes aligned to agency missions. To set the foundation for 
identity management and its usage to access physical and digital resources, agencies must 
implement National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800­
63-3 and any successive versions (hereafter referred to as NIST SP 800.:.63). While NIST SP 
800-63 is the foundation for digital identity, agencies must use it in combination with the 
remaining suite ofpublications that relate to identity management issued by NIST, the Office of 
3 Per 0MB Circular A-130, "Personally Identifiable Information" means information that can be used to distinguish 
or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a 
specific individual. 
4 For definitions ofterms such as digital identity, identity proofing, federation, and credential, see NIST Special 
Publication (SP) 800-63-3, Digital Identity Guidelines (or any successive version) available· at 
5 The concept ofLOA as a single ordinal that drives implementation-specific requirement is retired. Rather, the 
updates to NIST 800-63-3 combine appropriate business and privacy risk management with mission need, and 
separate the individual elements of 
identity assurance into discrete, component parts. 
2 
Personnel Management (OPM), and the Department of 
Homeland Security (DHS) to form a 
comprehensive approach to identity proofing that safeguards privacy and security. 
6 
III. Adapting the Government's Approach to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 
(HSPD-12) 
HSPD-12 remains the Government-wide policy for the promulgation of standards-based, 
secure, and reliable forms of 
identification issued by the Federal Government to its employees, 
contractors, and other enterprise users. Additionally, Federal Information Processing Standard 
(FIPS) 201-2, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) ofFederal Employees and Contractors (or 
successive version),7 remains the Government-wide standard for common identification, as 
called for by HSPD-12. In accordance with this standard, NIST guidelines, and Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) requirements, a PIV credential is the aggregate output of 
the 
processes used for identity proofing, vetting, and authoritatively binding the identity of 
a human 
credential holder to an authenticator. However, as technology evolves, the Government must 
offer flexible solutions to meet changing technology needs and shift the focus from managing the 
lifecycle of 
credentials to the lifecycle of 
identities. 
1. Agencies shall follow the requirements issued by OPM regarding the eligibility to issue, 
suspend, and revoke PIV credentials. 
8 
2. Agencies shall require PIV credentials (where applicable in accordance with OPM 
requirements) as the primary means of 
identification and authentication to Federal 
information systems and Federally controlled facilities and secured areas by Federal 
employees and contractors. 
• 
Agencies shall use Derived PIV Credentials9 for Federal employees, contractors, 
and other enterprise users (where applicable in accordance with OPM 
requirements) and to enable the acceptance of 
Derived PIV Credentials by 
applications and devices. 
7 FIPS 201-2, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) ofFederal Employees and Contractors (or any successive 
version) is available at https://csrc.nist.gov/publications. 
8 OPM is designated the Suitability and Credentialing Executive Agent in Executive Order.13764 Amending the 
Civil Service Rules, Executive Order 13488, and Executive Order 13467 To Modernize the Executive Branch-Wide 
Governance Structure and Processes for Security Clearances, Suitability and Fitness for Employment, and 
Credentialing, and Related Matters h 
s://www.Federalre ister. 
0 ov/documents/2017/0l/23/2017-01623/amendin ­
the-civil-service-rules-executive-order-13488-and-executive-order-13467-to-modemize-the. 
9 NIST SP 800-157 Guidelines for Derived Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Credentials (or any successive 
version or replacement guidelines) is available at h 
s://csrc.nist. ov/ ublications. 
3 
• 
Agencies shall work with the Federal CIO Council, the Federal Privacy Council, 
ari.d NIST to pilot10 additional solutions (e.g., different authenticators) that meet 
the intent of 
HSPD-12 and advance the technical approach to managing identities. 
The output of 
these pilots will drive improvements to NIST guidelines and 
Government-wide ICAM requirements including areas such as mobile and cloud 
identity. 
• 
Agencies shall implement processes to inanage access control, including the 
ability to revoke access privileges, when no longer authorized, and to revoke or 
destroy credentials in a timely manner. This is necessary to prevent unauthorized 
access to information systems when the employee or contractor separates from the 
agency, or the credential has been lost. Additionally, this serves to mitigate 
insider threats associated with compromised or potentially compromised 
credentials. 
• 
Agencies shall ensure that use of 
the PIV credential for physical access to Federal 
facilities and secured areas is implemented in accordance with The Risk 
Management Process for Federal Facilities: An Interagency Security Committee 
Standard (or any successive version)11 and NIST SP 800-116 Rl, Guidelines for 
the Use ofPIV Credentials in Facility Access (or any successive version). 
12 
3. Agencies, in collaboration with 0MB as necessary, shall support cross-government 
identity federation and interoperability by identifying and resolving obstacles to 
accepting the PIV identity assertions from other agencies to grant access ( 
where 
authorized) to agency information systems, facilities, and secured areas. This includes: 
• 
Implementing processes for the electronic verification of 
PIV identity assertions 
from other agencies. 
• 
Accepting and leveraging existing, valid PIV credentials, including those issued 
by other agencies and electronically verified, rather than issuing new ones. This 
is equally applicable for logical and physical access (where authorized). 
10 Information on the process for requesting pilots is available at https://www.cio.gov/. 
11 The Risk Management Process for Federal Facilities: An lntefagency Security Committee Standard defines the 
criteria and processes that those responsible for the security of a facility should use to determine its facility security 
level, and provides an integrated, single source ofphysical security countermeasures. The guidance is _available at 
h 
s://www.dhs. ov/ ublications. 
· 
12 NIST 800 116 Rl (or any successive version) contains guidance on the use of 
PIV credentials in physical access 
control systems (P 
ACS). P 
ACS are information systems, and they include, for example, servers, databases, 
workstations, and network appliances in either shared or isolated networks. The guidance is available at 
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications. 
4 
• 
Establishing and maintaining agreements ( 
where required) to facilitate cross­
government identity federation. 
4; Agencies shall establish capabilities aligned to Federal ICAM Architecture and 
Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) 13 requirements that enable the continuous 
vetting and evaluation of 
fitness of 
personnel subject to HSPD-12. 
• 
These capabilities will strengthen the Federal Government's approach to make 
risk~adaptive decisions regarding access to information systems, facilities, and 
secured areas as intended by HSPD-12. 
5. Agencies shall require and implement the use of 
the PIV credential digital signature 
capability. For individuals that fall outside the scope of 
PIV applicability, agencies 
should define and leverage credentials when using digital signatures. 
6. Agencies should use PIV credentials as a method to encrypt information in transit and 
shared between two or more Federal employees or contractors. 
IV. Shifting the Operating Model beyond the Perimeter 
The interwoven technical architecture of 
the Federal Government creates complexity in 
managing access to resources, safeguarding networks, and protecting information. While 
hardening the perimeter is important, agencies must shift from simply managing access inside 
and outside of 
the perimeter to using identity as the underpinning for managing the risk posed by 
attempts to access Federal resources made by users and information systems. To ignite adoption 
of 
this new mindset around ICAM capability deployment across the Federal Government, each 
agency must harmonize its enterprise-wide approach to governance, architecture, and 
acquisition. 
Governance 
1. Each agency shall designate an integrated agency-wide ICAM office, team, or other 
governance structure14 in support of 
its Enterprise Risk Management capability to 
effectively govern and enforce ICAM efforts. 
13 The CDM program enhances the overall security and privacy posture of 
the Federal government by providing 
Federal agencies with capabilities to reduce the attack surface of 
their respective networks, identify cybersecurity 
risks, and enable agencies to prioritize actions to mitigate or accept risks based on the potential impacts to their 
missions. CDM accomplishes this by working with agencies to deploy tools on agency networks that provide 
enterprise-wide visibility of 
what assets, users, and activities are on their networks. This actionable information 
allows agencies-to effectively monitor, defend, and rapidly respond to cyber incidents. Information on CDM is 
available at https://www.dhs.gov/cdm. 
14 Examples ofICAM governance structures is available at https://www.idmanagement.gov/. 
5 
• 
This structure should include personnel from the offices ofthe Chief Information 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Human Resources, General Counsel, Chief 
Information Security Officer, Senior Agency Official for Privacy, Chief 
Acquisition Officer, Senior Official(s) responsible for Physical Security, and 
component organizations that manage ICAM programs and capabilities, including 
ICAM capabilities deployed through the CDM Program. 
• 
Chief Operating Officers (COOs) 15 or the agency equivalent role shall ensure that 
there is regular coordination among agency leaders and mission owners to 
implement, manage, and maintain the agency's ICAM policies, processes, and 
technologies. 
• 
While the agency governance structure described above will facilitate oversight of 
the implementation of 
Government-wide and agency enterprise-specific 
requirements, all bureaus, components, and other organizations at the sub­
enterprise level must support efforts to harmonize ICAM across their respective 
agency by adhering to requirements and fostering accountability at all levels of 
the organization. 
2. Each agency shall define and maintain a single comprehensive ICAM policy, process, 
and technology solution roadmap, consistent with agency authorities and operational 
mission needs. These items should encompass the agency's entire enterprise, align with 
the Government-wide Federal Identity, Credential, and Access Management (FICAM) 
Architecture and CDM requirements, incorporate applicable Federal policies, standards, 
playbooks, and guidelines, and include roles and responsibilities for all users. 
16 
3. Each agency shall outline agency-wide performance expectations for security and privacy 
risk management throughout the identity lifecycle. These performance expectations shall 
support Government-wide management requirements, such as the President's 
Management Agenda (PMA) Cross Agency Priority (CAP) goals. 
• 
Agencies shall incorporate objectives for improving ICAM into their strategic 
plans and review their progress with 0MB as part of 
their strategic reviews. 17 
15 Per M-18-19, the COO is responsible for providing overall organization management to improve and achieve the 
mission and goals ofthe agency. COOs provide organizational leadership to improve performance ofboth mission 
and management functions. For more information, refer to https://www.whitehouse 
. 
..,ov/omb/infonnation-for­
agencies/memoranda/. 
17 Refer to 0MB Circular A-11 for more information on strategic planning and strategic reviews: 
https 
:/ 
/www. 
white 
house. gov/ 
omb/in 
formation-for-agencies/ 
circulars/. 
6 
4. Each agency shall incorporate Digital Identity Risk Management18 into existing Federal 
processes as outlined in NIST SP 800-63, including the selection of assurance levels 
commensurate with the risk to their digital service offerings. 19 
• 
Agencies shall use these levels to make risk-informed decisions when selecting 
and using processes and technologies implemented across the ICAM 
environment. 
• 
Agencies shall update legacy e-Authentication risk assessments to shift away 
from the obsolete LOA model. 
• 
Agencies shall coordinate with state, local, and tribal governments, other entities, 
and individuals to provide identity verification and access control appropriate to 
the risk level and performance ofthe business function in cases where information 
sharing or collection is required for business and mission functions. 
• 
Agencies shall share feedback on their implementation of 
the Digital Identity Risk 
Management process with the Federal CIO Council, Federal Privacy Council, and 
NIST to drive improvements to NIST SP 800-63. 
Architecture 
1. Agencies shall establish authoritative solutions for their ICAM services20 by rationalizing 
the ICAM capabilities that they will keep, replace, retire, or consolidate. Agencies are 
encouraged to promote flexible and scalable solutions that can work across the agency 
and change as mission needs evolve. 
2. Agencies shall ensure that deployed ICAM capabilities are interchangeable, use 
commercially available products, and leverage open Application Programming Interfaces 
(APis) and commercial standards to enable componentized development and promote 
interoperability across all levels of government. 
3. Agencies shall manage the digital identity lifecycle of 
devices, non-person entities 
(NPEs), and automated technologies such as Robotic Process Automation (RPA) tools 
and Artificial Intelligence (AI), ensuring the digital identity is distinguishable, auditable, 
and consistently managed across the agency. This includes establishing mechanisms to 
bind, update, revoke, and destroy credentials for the device or automated technology. 
18 Requirements in NIST SP 800-63 provide specific g4idance related to digital identity risk (inclusive ofprivacy) 
that agency relying parties apply while executing all relevantRMF lifecycle phases. Digital identity risk 
management does not establish additional risk management processes for agencies. 
19 Federal employees and contractors are required to be identity proofed and credentialed in accordance with 0MB 
and OPM policy. Therefore, digital identity risk assessments described in NIST SP 800-63 complement, rather than 
supersede, the guidance and requirements ofHSPD-12. 
7 
4. Agencies that are authoritative sources for attributes ( 
e.g., SSN) utilized in identity 
proofing· events, as selected by 0MB and permissible by law, shall establish privacy­
enhanced data validation APis for public and private sector identity proofing services to 
consume, providing a mechanism to improve the assurance of 
digital identity verification 
transactions based on consumer consent. 
• 
These selected agencies, in coordination with 0MB, shall establish standard 
processes and terms of 
use for public and private sector identity proofing services 
that want to consume the APis. 
5. Agencies shall leverage federated solutions to accept identity and authentication 
assertions made by mission and business partners. 
• 
Agencies shall accept assertions by partners based on digital identity risk and 
associated assurance levels in accordance with NIST guidelines and Government­
wide ICAM requirements.21 
• 
Agencies shall confirm that these assertions use open commercially available 
standards to the extent available. 
· 
Acquisition 
1. · Agencies shall require all contracts requiring contractors to have access to Federally 
controlled facilities or access to Federally controlled information systems to include a 
requirement to comply with HSPD-12 and FIPS 201 for affected contractor personnel 
based on OPM requirements and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).22 
2. Agencies shall confirm that products and services acquired to further their HSPD-12 
and ICAM implementations are compliant with 0MB policy, NIST standards, and 
supporting technical specifications.23 
3. Agencies shall leverage approved Best in Class and Tier 2 contract vehicles, 
24 or 
Federally provided shared services, to procure digital certificates for identification and 
authentication of 
Federal enterprise identities. 
21 This list ofrequirements for accepting externally issued credentials is available at 
h 
s://www.idmana ement. ov/. 
22 The Federal Acquisition Regulation, FAR, 48 C.F.R. Subpart 4.13, requires agencies to comply with FIPS 201 for 
contractors who require routine logical or physical access and includes language to this effect in applicable 
solicitations and contracts. 
· 
23 Approved products and services, such as those on the GSA Approved Products List (APL) are available at 
https://www.idmanagement.!;;>ov/. 
24 M-19-13 outlines guidance on the implementation of category management principles and use of 
common 
contract solutions. For more information, refer to h 
s://www.whitehouse. ov/omb/information-for­
agencies/memoranda/. 
8 
4. Agencies shall leverage the CDM Program to accelerate their procurement and 
deployment oftools related to the ICAM capabilities in Phase 2 or future phases. 
• 
Agencies shall work with the CDM Program to understand requirements·and 
identify future CDM phase capabilities that support ICAM goals. 
V. Improving Digital Interactions with the American Public 
Improving the trust and safety of 
transactions with the public across the Federal Government is 
critical to digital service delivery. It is imperative that agencies manage the risk to services and 
public user data at a level commensurate with the risk inherent to the digital offering as well as 
with the sensitivity of 
the data collected to provide the digital offering. 
1. Agencies shall ensure that identity proofing for Federal digital services provided to public 
consumers aligns with NIST guidance and Government-wide ICAM requirements. 
2. Agencies shall limit the collection of 
PII for establishing an individual's identity to that 
which is legally authorized, relevant, and deemed reasonably necessary. 
• . Once collected, agencies shall ensure that PII is protected commensurate with the 
level of 
risk it harbors, which may include the implementation of 
robust practices 
, 
and technologies. 
3. Agencies shall establish processes based on digital identity risk and associated assurance 
levels to allow an individual to bind, update, use, and disassociate non-Government­
furnished authenticators to their digital identity when accessing Federal digital services 
provided to public consumers. 
4. Agencies shall leverage existing credentials and identity federations that meet the 
agency's determined acceptable risk level rather than standing up processes or 
capabilities to issue new credentials to users. 
5. Agencies shall use Federally provided or commercially provided shared services,25 to the 
extent available, to deliver identity assurance and authentication services to the public. 
• 
These shared services shall align with NIST SP 800-63 security and privacy 
requirements. 
• 
With appropriate consent and privacy protections, agencies should share proofing 
confirmations across agencies to reduce public burden for having to submit 
identity data more than once to access Federal Government services. 
9 
• 
Where appropriate, and when individuals' consent is not obtainable, agencies 
should modify existing Privacy Act system of 
record notices to include routine 
uses permitting the disclosure of 
proofing information to reduce public burden for 
having to submit identity data more than once to access Federal Government 
services. 
• 
Agencies should solicit and document direct feedback from consumers to 
determine whether there is demand for the use of other service providers. If 
consumers demand a certain service provider and the provider meets the mission 
requirements, agencies should consider federating with that credential provider. 
• 
Agencies should use shared service providers that leverage more than one 
solution to enhance enterprise resiliency in case of a compromise or other service 
failure. 
VI. Enumerating Government-wide Responsibilities 
The following agencies lead Government-wide efforts to improve the management and use of 
digital identity. 
The Department of Commerce (DOC) is responsible for the following actions: 
1. Publish and maintain, within six months of 
the issuance ofthis policy, a roadmap with 
timelines and milestones for developing new and updating existing NIST guidance 
related to ICAM; 
2. Develop and issue guidance to promote the deployment oftechnology, including open 
source software that address agency digital identity needs such as new implementations 
of 
technology intended to meet agency use cases for devices, automated technologies, 
mobile, and cloud; 
3. Develop guidance to facilitate deployment and use of 
derived credentials for logical and 
physical access using authenticators that satisfy the security and privacy requirements of 
NIST SP 800-63 while leveraging the PIV identity proofing process; 
4. Establish, develop, and maintain resources for federation protocols, identity proofing, and 
authentication in alignment with NIST SP 800-63; 
5. Utilize feedback provided by agencies to make improvements to NIST SP 800-63-3 and 
other guidance; and 
6. Develop criteria, in coordination with the General Services Administration (GSA), for 
accrediting products and services that meet the assurance levels outlined in NIST SP 800­
63. 
10 
GSA26 is responsible for the.following actions: 
1. Develop and maintain, within six months of 
the issuance ofthis policy, a roadmap for 
providing or updating GSA solutions and shared services that allow agencies to achieve 
the outcomes in 0MB ICAM policy and NIST standards and guidelines; 
2. Publish and maintain, within three months of 
the issuance of 
this policy, a consolidated 
catalog of 
existing ICAM solutions and shared services that agencies can leverage 
immediately to begin meeting the requirements ofthis memorandum; 
· 
3. Maintain and support, in coordination with 0MB and DHS, the evolution of 
the 
Government-wide FICAM Architecture and associated guidance, previously published in 
the FICAM 
Roadmap and Implementation Guidance, v2. 0: FICAM 
Playbooks, and 
establish and maintain a repository for agency best practices; 
4. Maintain and innovate the FIPS 201 evaluation process, and associated Approved 
Products List (APL), to enable the acquisition of 
interoperable solutions for physical and 
logical access control; 
5. Determine the feasibility, in coordination with OMB~ of 
establishing or leveraging a 
public or private sector capability for accrediting ICAM products and services available 
on GSA acquisition vehicles, and confirm the capability leverages NIST developed 
criteria for 800-:63 assurance levels. This capability should support and not duplicate 
existing Federal approval processes; 
6. Innovate capabilities and update Federal Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)27 to provide 
government with a trust framework and infrastructure to administer digital certificates 
and other authentication solutions, such as those based on public key cryptography. This 
includes updating the PKI shared service provider approach to enable strong government 
oversight of service providers, including procurement and cost controls through GSA 
acquisition solutions as applicable;28 and 
7. Ensure that all GSA acquisition solutions for ICAM meet all relevant law, 0MB circulars 
and policies, Federal Acquisition Regulations, and NIST standards.29 
26 GSA serves as the executive agency for Government-wide acquisitions of 
information technology related to 
identity management initiatives. This designation is given to GSA in accordance with section 5112(e) ofthe 
Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. § 11302(e)). In this capacity, GSA maintains the GSA APL, developed to 
organize and define a standardized approval process for PIV products and services. 
27 Federal PKI provides the government with a common approach to administer digital certificates and public­
private key pairs for specific use cases. 
28 A comprehensive list of 
certified PKI service providers for the Federal government is available at 
29 As part of 
its agency reform initiatives generally, and Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) Reform initiative 
specifically, GSA shall strive to implement policies within eighteen (18) months ofthe effective date ofthis 
11 
OPM is responsible for the following actions: 
1. Develop, in coordination with 0MB and NIST, a vetting and credentialing model to 
assist agencies in making an HSPD-12 risk determination for employees, contractors, and 
other users accessing Federal information systems30 and information from non-Federally 
. 
controlled facilities, such as a seasonal employee or an administrator for a cloud service; 
and 
· 2. Update, within one (1) year ofthe issuance of 
this policy, vetting requirements for 
eligibility for a HSPD-12 aligned credential that enables physical and logical access to 
· Federally controlled facilities and information systems. This update will consolidate 
applicability requirements from Executive Orders on Suitability and 0MB Memo M-05­
24, to include applicability specifications for non-U.S. national and temporary agency 
employees.31 
DHS is responsible for the following actions: 
1. Ensure that the Risk Management Process for Federal Facilities: An Interagency Security 
Committee Standard, and other pertinent Interagency Security Committee (ISC) 
guidance, are aligned with Government-wide policy for the implementation of 
PIV 
credentials; . 
2. Lead research and development (R&D) coordination with the interagency, private sector, 
and international partner stakeholders to identify ICAM mission needs with related 
technology capability gaps, including in particular those that cannot be solved with 
currently fielded technologies, and that may require additional R&D investment to reach 
operational deployment maturity; and 
3. Develop and publish, in consultation with GSA, OPM, 0MB, and DOC a Physical 
Access Control System (P 
ACS) security and privacy control overlay32 to help agencies 
identify core controls for PACS. 
memorandum which reduce customer confusion, and enhance MAS' 
s internal coordination with respect to HSPD-12 
and Physical Access Control Systems (P 
ACS). 
30 Per 0MB Circular A-130, "Federal information system" means an information system used or operated by an 
agency or by_ a contractor of 
an agency or by another organization on behalf of 
an agency. 
31 Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12, 
htt s://www.o m.oov/investi ations/suitabili -executive-a ent/ olic /. 
32 An "overlay" is a specification of 
security or privacy controls, control enhancements, supplemental guidance, and 
other supporting information employed during the tailoring process, that is intended to complement (and further 
refine) security control baselines. For additional information on developing security control baselines, refer to 0MB 
Circular A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource, and NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy 
Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. These documents are available at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/infonnation-for-agencies/circu1ars/ and h 
s://csrc.nist. ov/ ublications. 
12 
Rescissions 
0MB rescinds the following with the release of 
this memorandum: 
1. M-04-04, E-Authentication Guidance for Federal Agencies 
2. M-05-05, Electronic Signatures: How to Mitigate the Risk ofCommercial Managed 
Services 
3. M-06-18, Acquisition ofProducts and Services for Implementation ofHSPD-12 
4. M-11-11, Continued Implementation ofHomeland Security Presidential Directive 
(HSP 
D) 12 - Policy for a Common Identification Standard 
for Federal Employees and 
Contractors 
5. 0MB Memorandum, Requirements/or Accepting Externally-Issued Identity Credentials, 
October 6, 2011 
Policy Assistance 
Address all questions or inquiries regarding this memorandum to the 0MB Office ofthe Federal 
Chief Information Officer (OFCIO) via email: ofcio@omb.eop.gov. 
13 
