UNCLASSIFIED (U)
5 FAM 160
IDENTITY, CREDENTIAL, AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
(Office of Origin:
IRM/FO/ITI)
5 FAM 161
SCOPE
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
This subchapter defines the Department of State's
Enterprise Identity, Credential, and Access Management (SE-ICAM) program as
mandated by the Federal ICAM policy. Participation in the ICAM program is
mandatory for all Department entities with systems that integrate into the
Department's enterprise solutions. The
Department
program provides Single Sign-On (SSO), multi-factor authentication
(MFA), identity governance, and user
access
lifecycle
management for all Department entities and articulates secure and efficient
operations.
5 FAM 162
AUTHORITIES
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
a.
Executive Order (EO) 14028: Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity
b.
Executive Order (EO) 14058: Transforming Federal Customer Experience and
Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in Government
c.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-19-17: Enabling
Mission Delivery through Improved Identity, Credential, and Access Management
d.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-22-09: Moving the
U.S. Government Toward Zero Trust Cybersecurity Principles
e.
Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12, Policy for a Common
Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors
f.
Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014
g.
Federal Identity, Credential, and Access Management (FICAM) Roadmap and
Implementation Guidance, v2.0, 2011
h.
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special
Publications (SP) 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems
and Organizations
i.
NIST SP 800-63-3, Digital Identity Guidelines
j.
NIST SP 800-63A, Digital Identity Guidelines: Enrollment and Identity
Proofing Requirements
k.
NIST SP 800-63B, Digital Identity Guidelines: Authentication and
Lifecycle Management
l.
NIST SP 800-63C, Digital Identity Guidelines: Federation and Assertions
5 FAM 163
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
a. The mission of the Department’s SE-ICAM
program is to provide an end-to-end solution for Identity, Credential and
Access Management through governed identity, verified and trusted credentials,
and access management.
b. This subchapter enables the Department to fulfill
its mission obligations under Office and Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum
M-19-17 “Enabling Mission Delivery through Improved Identity, Credential,
and Access Management.” OMB M-19-17 includes the establishment of an
agency-wide ICAM program charged with defining and implementing policy and
procedures and establishing a comprehensive roadmap
that guides
ICAM.
5 FAM 164
DEFINITIONS
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
Access
:- The process of granting or denying
specific requests: 1) for obtaining and using information and related
information processing services; and 2) to enter specific physical facilities
(e.g., Federal buildings, military establishments)
Cloud
:– Defined in
5 FAM 1113
Consumer Identity Access Management (CIAM)
:-
CIAM focuses specifically on managing the identities of customers who need
access to corporate websites
and
web
portals. Rather than managing user accounts in every instance of a software
application of a company, the identity is managed in a CIAM component, making
reuse of the identity possible.
Continuous Diagnostic and Mitigation
(CDM)
Program
:- Enhances the overall
security and privacy posture of the Federal government by providing Federal
agencies with capabilities to reduce the attack surface of their respective
networks, identify cybersecurity risks, enabling agencies to prioritize actions
to mitigate or accept risk based on the potential impacts to their mission.
Credential
:– An object or data structure
that authoritatively binds an identity – via an identifier or identifiers
– and (optionally) additional attributes, to at least one authenticator
possessed and controlled by a subscriber.
Governance
:– Is the set of practices and
systems that guides ICAM activities, functions, and outcomes.  To perform
effective governance, agencies must collect data about ICAM functions from many
sources, such as policies and entitlements stores, and analyze this data.
Identity
:
– The
unique representation of a subject, for example, a person, a device, or an
automated technology, which is engaged in a transaction involving at least one
Federal subject or Federal resource.
Master User Record
(MUR)
:
– The MUR identifies an entity (user) that requests
access to information or systems. It includes attributes about trust,
credentials, access and permission authorization, accounts, and training for
specific roles and responsibilities.
Multi-factor Authentication
(MFA)
:
- Multi-factor authentication, is an authentication method
in which a user is granted access only after successfully presenting two or
more pieces of evidence to an authentication mechanism: something the user
knows (e.g., password), something the user has (e.g., a token), or something
the user is (e.g., a biometric).
Personally Identifiable Information
(PII)
:
- Defined in
5 FAM 463
Personal Identity Verification (PIV)
:
- Defined in
5 FAM 114
Single Sign-On
(SSO)
:
- Single sign-on is an authentication process that allows a
user to log in with a single authentication to any of several related, yet
independent, software systems.
5 FAM 165
RESPONSIBILITIES
5 FAM 165.1
SE-ICAM Program
Responsibilities
(CT:IM-292;
04-28-2023)
Consistent with Department authorities and operational
mission needs, the SE-ICAM program is the single, centralized point of contact
for the Department’s ICAM systems, and is responsible for the following:
(1)  Implementing and operating an integrated,
comprehensive set of ICAM technology solutions throughout Department
infrastructure;
(2)  Providing identity governance solutions to manage
digital identities and associated privileges throughout the lifecycle of a
user’s relationship with the Department;
(3)  Ensuring compliance with ICAM related EOs, OMB
memorandums, NIST publications, and policy directives;
(4)  Developing and implementing policies that guide,
manage, and direct ICAM activities and interactions across the Department;
(5)  Coordinating internal and external ICAM program
communications and outreach to Department stakeholders;
(6)  Deploying ICAM capabilities using commercially
available products to the maximum extent possible;
(7)  Leveraging open Application Programming Interfaces
(APIs) and commercial standards to enable modularized development and promote
interoperability across all levels of government;
(8)  Ensuring that products and services are compliant
with OMB policies, NIST standards, and supported technical specifications to
further ICAM implementations and operations;
(9)  Limiting the collection of PII for establishing an
individual's identity to that which is legally authorized and deemed necessary
for accurate identification;
(10) Leveraging existing personal identity verification
(PIV) credentials and identity federations that meet the agency's determined
acceptable risk level;
(11) Implementing and operating technological solutions
on cloud and on-prem systems to ensure only authenticated users are accessing
Department owned systems; and
(12) Providing ICAM support for cloud and on-premises
applications and services.
5 FAM 165.2
HSPD-12 Joint Advisory
Council
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
The Joint Advisory Council (JAC) is the working level
group for the technical implementation of Homeland Security Presidential
Directive 12 (HSPD-12) and OMB Memo M-19-17. The Executive Steering Committee
provides guidance and direction and approves policy decisions proposed by the
ICAM JAC:
(1)  HSPD-12 JAC guides the planning, development,
implementation, and promulgation of standards-based, secure and reliable forms
of identification of the enterprise-wide identity management policy within the Department;
(2)  The purpose of HSPD is to:
(a)  Recommend policies and procedures to meet federal
requirements;
(b)  Develop a plan and budget to meet the global
requirements of the Directive;
(c)  Coordinate the full benefits of the PIV credentials
through the purchase, deployment, and maintenance of ICAM compliant systems;
and
(d)  Participate with other government agencies in the
planning and execution of PIV credentials.
5 FAM 165.3
Organizational
Requirements
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
Department bureaus, entities, and business processes must
use the Department’s ICAM technologies to the maximum extent possible, in
accordance with this subchapter. Exceptions from using the enterprise ICAM
solution
are
determined in accordance with
5 FAM
1064.1-2(B)
Request for Exceptions and Deviations.
5 FAM 165.4
Exclusions to the
SE-ICAM Program
(CT:IM-292;
04-28-2023)
The Department’s SE-ICAM identity access management
solutions control access to on-premises systems and cloud applications, for
both enterprise and non-enterprise users, providing SSO and MFA with the
explicit exclusion of:
(1)  The Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS) Identity
Management System (IdMS); and
(2)  The Consumer Identity Access Management (CIAM)
system.
5 FAM 166
SECURITY OF SE-ICAM SYSTEM
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
a. This policy is written in adherence with the Federal
Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014.
b. The SE-ICAM solution leverages products from the CDM
Identity Access Management (IAM) program.
c.  The SE-ICAM solution enforces zero trust
architecture by:
(1)  Identifying who is on the network;
(2)  Ensuring that authorized users have the required
credentials and privileges;
(3)  Validating
that
users have completed security training in order to access a system, and
(4)  Enforcing
the
use of MFA security.
d. The SE-ICAM solution implements the Master User
Record (MUR). The MUR combines core personal data attributes from across the
Department to meet TRUST, BEHAVE, CRED, and PRIV requirements. The MUR also
serves as a repository of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) by
compiling PII from multiple resources within the Department.
e. Due to the sensitivity of a system as a potential
target, physical and logical access
must
both
be isolated. The following isolation controls must be addressed:
(1)  Only specifically authorized members of the
SE-ICAM team have physical access to the system. The system is located in
enclaves, which requires two-person access control within the datacenters; and
(2)  The system has restricted communications through
the firewall. The protocols are defined in the SE-ICAM System Security Plan
(SSP).
5 FAM 167
State Global Identifier
(SGID)
(CT:IM-316;
04-23-2024)
The State Global Identifier (SGID) is a Department created
and assigned numeric identifier used to identify persons in perpetuity in lieu
of using Social Security Numbers (SSN) or other personally identifiable
information (PII):
(1)  The purpose of the State Global Identifier (SGID)
is to increase efficiency, reduce identity fraud, and protect privacy; and
(2)  All SGIDs created must be linked to an
individual’s biographical information, such as SSN or date of birth, and
bound to a DS approved biometric factor.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)