 
 
1 
 
CIRCULAR NO. A-130 
TO THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES  
SUBJECT:   Managing Information as a Strategic Resource 
1. Introduction 
2. Purpose 
3. Applicability  
4. Basic Considerations 
5. Policy 
a. Planning and Budgeting 
b. Governance  
c. Leadership and Workforce 
d. IT Investment Management 
e. Information Management and Access 
f. Privacy and Information Security 
g. Electronic Signatures 
h. Records Management 
i. Leveraging the Evolving Internet  
6. Government-wide Responsibilities 
7. Effectiveness 
8. Oversight 
9. Authority 
10. Definitions 
11. Inquiries 
 
Appendix I: Responsibilities for Protecting and Managing Federal Information Resources 
1. Introduction  
2. Purpose  
3. General Requirements 
4. Specific Requirements 
5. Government-wide Responsibilities 
6. Discussion of the Major Provisions in the Appendix 
7. Other Requirements 
8. References 
 
Appendix II: Responsibilities for Managing Personally Identifiable Information  
1. Purpose  
2. Introduction  
3. Fair Information Practice Principles 
4. Senior Agency Official for Privacy 
5. Agency Privacy Program 
6. Managing PII Collected for Statistical Purposes Under a Pledge of Confidentiality 
 
 
2 
 
1. Introduction 
Information and information technology (IT) resources are critical to the U.S. social, political, 
and economic well-being.  They enable the Federal Government to provide quality services to 
citizens, generate and disseminate knowledge, and facilitate greater productivity and 
advancement as a Nation.  It is important for the Federal Government to maximize the quality 
and security of Federal information systems, and to develop and implement uniform and 
consistent information resources management policies in order to inform the public and improve 
the productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness of agency programs.  Additionally, as technology 
evolves, it is important that agencies manage information systems in a way that addresses and 
mitigates security and privacy risks associated with new information technologies and new 
information processing capabilities.  
These new information technologies and information processing capabilities also provide 
significant opportunities for agencies.  The deeply embedded nature of IT in all Federal agency 
missions and business processes, and the emergence of the digital economy, combined with the 
increasing interconnection of technology and public services, has changed the way we share 
information, changed the way we use and view technology, and has forever changed Americans’ 
expectations.  To meet expectations of the American people and facilitate innovation, the Federal 
Government must continue to transform itself to embrace and respond to the digital revolution by 
developing and maintaining a top-notch workforce and delivering secure, world-class digital 
services that serve the public.  With IT at the core of nearly everything the Federal Government 
does, agencies must continually identify ways to apply new and emerging technologies that can 
fundamentally improve the way Government works and delivers services to the American people 
in the most cost-effective way possible.  Delivering world-class digital services requires the 
Federal Government to change its approach to buying, building, and delivering IT and 
information.  This Circular is designed to help drive the transformation of the Federal 
Government and the way it builds, buys, and delivers technology by institutionalizing more agile 
approaches intended to facilitate the rapid adoption of changing technologies, in a way that 
enhances information security, privacy, and management of information resources across all 
Federal programs and services. 
2. Purpose  
This Circular1 establishes general policy for the planning, budgeting, governance, acquisition, 
and management of Federal information, personnel, equipment, funds, IT resources and 
supporting infrastructure and services.  The appendices to this Circular also include 
responsibilities for protecting Federal information resources and managing personally 
identifiable information (PII).  While it is the responsibility of all agency leadership, program 
managers, and staff to implement the requirements of this Circular, agency heads have ultimate 
                                                          
 
1 Although this Circular touches on many specific information resources management issues such as privacy, 
confidentiality, information quality, dissemination, and statistical policy, those topics are covered more fully in other 
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) policies, which are available on the OMB website.  Agencies shall 
implement the policies in this Circular and those in other OMB policy guidance in a mutually consistent fashion. 
 
 
3 
 
responsibility for ensuring that the requirements of this Circular are implemented for their 
agency. 
3. Applicability 
The requirements of this Circular apply to the information resources management activities of all 
agencies2 of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government.  The requirements of this Circular 
apply to management activities concerning all information resources in any medium (unless 
otherwise noted), including paper and electronic information.  When an agency acts as a service 
provider, the ultimate responsibility for compliance with applicable requirements of this Circular 
is not shifted (to the service provider).  Agencies shall describe the responsibilities of service 
providers in relevant agreements with the service providers.  Agencies are not required to apply 
this Circular to national security systems (defined in 44 U.S.C. § 3552), but are encouraged to do 
so where appropriate.  For national security systems, agencies shall follow applicable statutes, 
executive orders, directives, and internal agency policies.   
4. Basic Considerations 
Federal information is both a strategic asset and a valuable national resource.  It enables the 
Government to carry out its mission and programs effectively.  It provides the public with 
knowledge of the Government, society, economy, and environment – past, present, and future.  
Federal information is also a means to ensure the accountability of Government, to manage the 
Government’s operations, and to maintain and enhance the performance of the economy, the 
public health, and welfare.  Appropriate access to Federal information significantly enhances the 
value of the information and the return on the Nation’s investment in its creation.  The following 
considerations reflect these principles: 
a. The free flow of information between the Government and the public is essential to a 
democratic society.  Therefore, the management of Federal information resources shall 
protect the public’s right of access to Federal information;  
b. Government agencies shall be open, transparent, and accountable to the public.  Promoting 
openness and interoperability, subject to applicable legal and policy requirements, increases 
operational efficiencies, reduces costs, improves services, supports mission needs, and 
increases public access to valuable Federal information;  
c. Making Federal information discoverable, accessible, and usable can fuel entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and scientific discovery that improves the lives of Americans, and contributes 
significantly to national stability and prosperity, and fosters public participation in 
Government; 
d. The Federal Government shall provide members of the public with access to public 
information on Government websites.  This responsibility includes taking affirmative steps to 
ensure and maximize the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of Federal information 
prior to public dissemination, and maintaining processes for addressing requests for 
correction of information disseminated publicly; 
                                                          
 
2 ‘Agency’ means any executive agency or department, military department, Federal Government corporation, 
Federal Government-controlled corporation, or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the Federal 
Government, or any independent regulatory agency. 
 
 
4 
 
e. The open and efficient exchange of scientific and technical Federal information, subject to 
applicable security and privacy controls and the proprietary rights of others, fosters 
excellence in scientific research and effective use of Federal research and development 
resources; 
f. Federal information is a strategic asset subject to risks that must be managed to minimize 
harm; 
g. Protecting an individual’s privacy is of utmost importance.  The Federal Government shall 
consider and protect an individual’s privacy throughout the information life cycle; 
h. While security and privacy are independent and separate disciplines, they are closely related, 
and it is essential for agencies to take a coordinated approach to identifying and managing 
security and privacy risks and complying with applicable requirements; 
i. The design of information collections shall be consistent with the intended use of the 
information, and the need for new information shall be balanced against the burden imposed 
on the public, the cost of the collection, and any privacy risks;  
j. It is essential that the Federal Government minimize the Federal information collection 
burden on the public, minimize the costs of its information activities, and maximize the 
usefulness of Government information; and 
k. Attention to the management of Federal Government records from creation to disposition is 
an essential component of sound information resources management that promotes public 
accountability.  Together with records preservation, it helps protect the Federal 
Government’s historical record and safeguards the legal and financial rights of the Federal 
Government and the public.  
5. Policy 
Agencies shall establish a comprehensive approach to improve the acquisition and management 
of their information resources by: performing information resources management activities in an 
efficient, effective, economical, secure, and privacy-enhancing manner; focusing information 
resources planning to support their missions; implementing an IT investment management 
process that links to and supports budget formulation and execution; and rethinking and 
restructuring the way work is performed before investing in new information systems. 
a. Planning and Budgeting 
Agencies shall establish agency-wide planning and budgeting processes in accordance with 
OMB guidance.  As discussed below, important components of planning and budgeting 
consist of developing and maintaining a strategy for managing and maintaining their 
information resources, referred to as the Information Resource Management (IRM) Strategic 
Plan, as well as ensuring effective collaboration between agency leadership on budget 
activities.  
1) Strategic Planning  
In support of agency missions and business needs, and as part of the agency’s overall 
strategic and performance planning processes, agencies shall develop and maintain an 
IRM Strategic Plan that describes the agency’s technology and information resources 
 
 
5 
 
goals, including but not limited to, the processes described in this Circular.  The IRM 
Strategic Plan must support the goals of the Agency Strategic Plan required by the 
Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 (GPRA 
Modernization Act).  The IRM Strategic Plan shall demonstrate how the technology and 
information resources goals map to the agency’s mission and organizational priorities.  
These goals shall be specific, verifiable, and measurable, so that progress against these 
goals can be tracked.  The agency shall review its IRM Strategic Plan annually alongside 
the Annual Performance Plan reviews, required by the GPRA Modernization Act, to 
determine if there are any performance gaps or changes to mission needs, priorities, or 
goals.  As part of the planning and maintenance of an effective information strategy, 
agencies shall meet the following requirements, in addition to all other requirements in 
this Circular:  
a) Inventories  
Agencies shall: 
i. 
Maintain an inventory3 of the agency’s major information systems,4 information 
holdings, and dissemination products, at the level of detail that OMB and the 
agency determine is most appropriate for overseeing and managing the 
information resources; and 
ii. Maintain an inventory of the agency’s information systems that create, collect, 
use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII to allow the 
agency to regularly review its PII and ensure, to the extent reasonably 
practicable, that such PII is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete; and to 
allow the agency to reduce its PII to the minimum necessary for the proper 
performance of authorized agency functions.5  
b) Information Management 
Agencies shall: 
i. 
Continually facilitate adoption of new and emerging technologies, and regularly 
assess the following throughout the life of each information system: the 
inventory of the physical and software assets associated with the system6; the 
maintainability and sustainability of the information resources and infrastructure 
supporting the system; and actively determine when significant upgrades, 
                                                          
 
3 The inventory of agency information resources shall include an enterprise-wide data inventory that accounts for 
data used in the agency’s information systems.     
4 The inventory of major information systems is required in accordance with 44 U.S.C. § 3505(c).  All information 
systems are subject to the requirements of the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 
35) whether or not they are designated as a major information system. 
5 This inventory may be combined with the agency’s inventory of information systems, as described above. 
6 Agencies shall ensure that physical devices, software applications, hardware platforms, and systems within the 
organization are inventoried initially when obtained and updated on an ongoing basis. 
 
 
6 
 
replacements, or disposition is required to effectively support agency missions 
or business functions and adequately protect agency assets;7 and 
ii. Ensure the terms and conditions of contracts and other agreements involving the 
processing, storage, access to, transmission, and disposition of Federal 
information are linked to the IRM strategic plan goals, and are sufficient to 
enable agencies to meet their policy and legal requirements. 
c) Risk Management 
Agencies shall: 
i. 
Consider information security, privacy, records management, public 
transparency, and supply chain security issues for all resource planning and 
management activities throughout the system development life cycle so that 
risks are appropriately managed;  
ii. Develop plan, in consultation with Chief Information Officers (CIOs), Senior 
Agency Officials for Records Management (SAORMs), and Senior Agency 
Officials for Privacy (SAOPs), for information systems and components that 
cannot be appropriately protected or secured and ensure that such systems are 
given a high priority for upgrade, replacement, or retirement;8  
iii. Regularly review and address risk regarding processes, people, and technology; 
and 
iv. Consult National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Federal 
Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and NIST Special Publications (SPs) 
(e.g., 500, 800, and 1800 series guidelines).  
2) Enterprise Architecture  
Agencies shall develop an enterprise architecture (EA) that describes the baseline 
architecture, target architecture, and a transition plan to get to the target architecture.  
The agency’s EA shall align to their IRM Strategic Plan.  The EA should incorporate 
agency plans for significant upgrades, replacements, and disposition of information 
systems when the systems can no longer effectively support missions or business 
functions.  The EA should align business and technology resources to achieve strategic 
outcomes.  The process of describing the current and future state of the agency, and 
laying out a plan for transitioning from the current state to the desired future state, helps 
agencies to eliminate waste and duplication, increase shared services, close performance 
gaps, and promote engagement among Government, industry, and citizens.    
 
 
                                                          
 
7 The assessment process is described in NIST SP 800-53A, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal 
Information Systems and Organizations.  
8 Includes hardware, software, or firmware components no longer supported by developers, vendors, or 
manufacturers through the availability of software patches, firmware updates, replacement parts, and maintenance 
contracts.  NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, 
provides additional guidance on unsupported software components. 
 
 
7 
 
3) Planning, Programming, and Budgeting 
Agencies shall, in accordance with the Federal Information Technology Acquisition 
Reform Act (FITARA) and related OMB policy:9  
a) Ensure that IT resources are distinctly identified and separated from non-IT 
resources during the planning, programming, and budgeting processes in a manner 
that affords agency CIOs appropriate visibility and specificity to provide effective 
management and oversight of IT resources; 
b) Ensure that the agency-wide budget development process includes the CFO, CAO, 
and CIO in the planning, programming, and budgeting stages for programs that 
include IT resources (not just programs that are primarily information- and 
technology-oriented); 
c) The agency head, in consultation with the CFO, CAO, CIO, and program leadership, 
shall define the processes by which program leadership works with the CIO to plan 
an overall portfolio of IT resources that achieve program and business objectives 
efficiently and effectively by: 
i. 
Weighing potential and ongoing IT investments and their underlying capabilities 
against other proposed and ongoing IT investments in the portfolio; and 
ii. Identifying gaps between planned and actual cost, schedule, and performance 
goals for IT investments and developing a corrective action plan to close such 
gaps; 
d) Ensure that the CIO approves the IT components of any plans, through a process 
defined by the agency head that balances IT investments with other uses of agency 
funding.  Agencies shall also ensure that the CIO is included in the internal planning 
processes for how the agency uses information resources to achieve its objectives at 
all points in their life cycle, including operations and disposition or migration; 
e) Ensure that agency budget justification materials, in their initial budget submission 
to OMB, include a statement that affirms: 
i. 
The CIO has reviewed and approves the IT investments portion of the budget 
request;  
ii. The SAOP has reviewed the IT investments portion of the budget request to 
ensure that privacy requirements, as well as any associated costs, are explicitly 
identified and included with respect to any IT resources that will be used to 
create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of 
PII; 
                                                          
 
9 OMB policy documents can be located at https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_default and 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda_default.  The Department of Defense (DoD), the Intelligence 
Community, and portions of other agencies that operate systems related to national security are subject to only 
certain portions of Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform (FITARA) (Pub. L. 113-291), as provided 
for in the statute.   
 
 
 
8 
 
iii. The CFO and CIO jointly affirm that the CIO had a significant role in reviewing 
planned IT support for major program objectives and significant increases and 
decreases in IT resources; and 
iv. The IT Portfolio includes appropriate estimates of all IT resources included in 
the budget request; 
f) Ensure that the CFO, CAO, and CIO define agency-wide policy for the level of 
detail of planned expenditure reporting for all transactions that include IT resources. 
4) Business Continuity Planning 
Agencies shall develop a Business Continuity Plan.10  A Business Continuity Plan to 
continue agency operations during times of service disruption is essential.  Therefore, 
agencies shall develop continuity strategies in order to ensure services and access can be 
restored in time to meet the mission needs.  Manual workarounds shall be part of the 
plan so business can continue while information systems are being restored.   
b. Governance  
In support of agency missions and business needs, and in coordination with program 
managers, agencies shall: 
1) Define, implement, and maintain processes, standards, and policies applied to all 
information resources at the agency, in accordance with OMB guidance; 
2) Require that the CIO, in coordination with appropriate governance boards, defines 
processes and policies in sufficient detail to address information resources appropriately. 
At a minimum, these processes and policies shall require that: 
a) Investments and projects in development are evaluated to determine the applicability 
of agile development;11     
b) Open data standards are used to the maximum extent possible when implementing IT 
systems; 
c) Appropriate measurements are used to evaluate the cost, schedule, and overall 
performance variances12 of IT projects across the portfolio leveraging processes such 
                                                          
 
10 The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA) (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35) requires each 
agency to develop, document, and implement an agency-wide information security program that includes plans and 
procedures to ensure continuity of operations for information systems that support the operations and assets of the 
agency.  For additional information related to continuity planning and contingency planning, see Appendix I. 
11 This evaluation shall be conducted as part of the acquisition planning process and involve staff from the CIO of 
the department, the implementing program managers, the appropriate contracting office representatives, and other 
applicable agency officials; 
12 Standard definitions from budget or performance management practices, such as earned value management, shall 
be used for cost variance and schedule variance to measure progress. 
 
 
9 
 
as IT investment management, enterprise architecture, and other agency IT or 
performance management processes;13  
d) There are agency-wide policies and procedures for conducting IT investment 
reviews, operational analyses, or other applicable performance reviews to evaluate 
IT resources, including projects in development and ongoing activities;  
e) Data and information needs are met through agency-wide data governance policies 
that clearly establish the roles, responsibilities, and processes by which agency 
personnel manage information as an asset and the relationships among technology, 
data, agency programs, strategies, legal and regulatory requirements, and business 
objectives;14 and 
f) Unsupported information systems and system components15 are phased out as 
rapidly as possible, and planning and budgeting activities for all IT systems and 
services incorporate migration planning and resourcing to accomplish this 
requirement; 
3) Ensure that the CIO is a member of governance boards that inform decisions regarding 
IT resources to provide for early matching of appropriate information resources with 
program objectives.  The CIO may designate, in consultation with other senior agency 
officials, other agency officials to act as their representative to fulfill aspects of this 
responsibility so long as the CIO retains accountability; 
4) Require that information security and privacy be fully integrated into the system 
development process; 
5) Conduct TechStat reviews, led by the CIO, or use other applicable performance 
measurements to evaluate the use of agency information resources.  The CIO may 
recommend to the agency head the modification, pause, or termination of any 
acquisition, investment, or activity that includes a significant IT component based on the 
CIO’s evaluation, within the terms of the relevant contracts and applicable regulations; 
6) Establish and maintain a process for the CIO to regularly engage with program managers 
to evaluate IT resources supporting each agency strategic objective.  It shall be the CIO 
and program managers’ shared responsibility to ensure that legacy and ongoing IT 
investments are appropriately delivering customer value and meeting the business 
objectives of the agency and the programs that support the agency; and 
7) Measure performance in accordance with the GPRA Modernization Act and OMB 
Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget.   
                                                          
 
13 The Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-355) requires agencies to achieve, on average, 
ninety percent of the cost and schedule goals established for major and non-major acquisition programs of the 
agency without reducing the performance or capabilities of the items being acquired. 
14 In accordance with the information management responsibilities outlined in 44 U.S.C. § 3506(b).   
15 Includes hardware, software, or firmware components no longer supported by developers, vendors, manufacturers, 
or communities through the availability of software patches, firmware updates, replacement parts, and maintenance 
contracts.  NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, 
provides additional guidance on unsupported software components. 
 
 
10 
 
c. Leadership and Workforce 
Agencies shall: 
1) Require that the Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO), CIO, CAO, and SAOP develop 
a set of competency requirements for information resources staff, including program 
managers, information security, privacy, and IT leadership positions, and develop and 
maintain a current workforce planning process to ensure that the agency can:  
a) Anticipate and respond to changing mission requirements; 
b) Maintain workforce skills in a rapidly developing IT environment; and 
c) Recruit and retain the IT talent needed to accomplish the mission; 
2) Ensure that the workforce, which supports the acquisition, management, maintenance, 
and use of information resources, has the appropriate knowledge and skills to facilitate 
the achievement of the portfolio’s performance goals and, further, evaluate the extent to 
which the agency’s executive-level workforce has appropriate information and 
technology-related knowledge and skills;   
3) Implement innovative approaches and track performance of workforce development 
training, including cross-functional training, rotational development and assignments, 
and effective training and education used by the private sector, to maintain and enhance 
skills or obtain additional skills; 
4) Ensure that the CHCO and CIO jointly establish an agency-wide critical element (or 
elements) to be included in all component or bureau CIOs’ performance evaluations.  In 
addition, the CIO shall identify key component or bureau CIOs and provide input to the 
rating official for these component or bureau CIOs at the time of the initial summary 
rating and for any required progress reviews.  The rating official will consider the input 
from the CIO when determining the initial summary rating and discuss it with the 
component or bureau CIO during progress reviews; 
5) Ensure that the CIO is involved in the recruitment, approves the selection, and provides 
input for the performance review of any component or bureau CIO, which includes any 
component or bureau leader who holds CIO duties but not necessarily the “CIO” title.  
The title and responsibilities of current component or bureau CIOs should be designated 
or transferred to other agency personnel by the agency head or their designee as 
appropriate, and such decisions should take into consideration recommendations from 
the agency CIO;  
6) Ensure that the SAOP is involved in assessing and addressing the hiring, training, and 
professional development needs of the agency with respect to privacy; and 
7) Ensure that the CIO, CHCO, SAOP, and other hiring managers take advantage of 
flexible hiring authorities for specialized positions, as established by the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM). 
d. IT Investment Management 
1) Acquisition of Information Technology and Services 
Agencies shall:  
 
 
11 
 
a) Make use of adequate competition, analyze risks (including supply chain risks) 
associated with potential contractors and the products and services they provide, and 
allocate risk responsibility between Government and contractor when acquiring IT; 
b) Conduct definitive technical, cost, and risk analyses of alternative design 
implementations, including consideration of the full life cycle costs of IT products 
and services, including but not limited to, planning, analysis, design, 
implementation, sustainment, maintenance, re-competition, and retraining costs, 
scaled to the size and complexity of individual requirements;16  
c) Consider existing Federal contract solutions or shared services when developing 
planned information systems, available within the same agency, from other agencies, 
or from the private sector to meet agency needs to avoid duplicative IT investments; 
d) Acquire IT products and services in accordance with Government-wide 
requirements;17   
e) Ensure that decisions to improve existing information systems with custom-
developed solutions or develop new information systems are initiated only when no 
existing alternative private sector or governmental source can efficiently meet the 
need, taking into account long-term sustainment and maintenance; 
f) Structure acquisitions for major IT investments into useful segments, with a narrow 
scope and brief duration, in order to reduce risk, promote flexibility and 
interoperability, increase accountability, and better match mission need with current 
technology and market conditions; 
g) To the extent practicable, modular contracts for IT, including orders for increments 
or useful segments of work, should be awarded within 180 days after the solicitation 
is issued.  If award cannot be made within 180 days, agencies shall consider 
cancelling the solicitation.  The IT acquired should be delivered within 18 months 
after the solicitation resulting in award of the contract was issued;18  
h) Align IT procurement requirements with larger agency strategic goals;  
i) Promote innovation in IT procurements, including conducting market research in 
order to maximize utilization of innovative ideas; and  
j) Include security, privacy, accessibility, records management, and other relevant 
requirements in solicitations.  
2) Agency Approval 
Agencies shall ensure that all acquisition strategies, plans, and requirements (as 
described in FAR Part 7), or interagency agreements (such as those used to support 
                                                          
 
16 Other acquisition planning provisions are set forth in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 7.1, 
Acquisition Plans, and Part 10, Market Research. 
17 For information regarding Government-wide requirements, refer to OMB policy and the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation.  For the acquisition of Personal Identity Verification (PIV) and public key infrastructure (PKI) products 
and services, also refer to the FIPS 201 Evaluation Program at https://www.idmanagement.gov. 
18 Pursuant to Public Contracts statute (41 U.S.C. § 2308). 
 
 
12 
 
purchases through another agency) that include IT are reviewed and approved by the 
purchasing agency’s CIO. These approvals shall consider the following factors: 
a) Alignment with mission and program objectives in coordination with program 
leadership; 
b) Appropriateness with respect to the mission and business objectives supported by the 
IRM Strategic Plan; 
c) Inclusion of innovative solutions; 
d) Appropriateness of contract type for IT-related resources;  
e) Appropriateness of IT-related portions of statement of needs or statement of work;  
f) Ability to deliver functionality in short increments; 
g) Inclusion of Government-wide IT requirements, such as information security; and 
h) Opportunities to migrate from end-of-life software and systems, and to retire those 
systems. 
3) Investment Planning and Control   
Agencies are responsible for establishing a decision-making process that shall cover the 
life of each information system and include explicit criteria for analyzing the projected 
and actual costs, benefits, and risks, including information security and privacy risks, 
associated with the IT investments.  Agencies shall designate IT investments according 
to relevant statutes, regulations, and guidance in OMB Circular A-11, and execute 
processes commensurate with the size, scope, duration, and delivery risk of the 
investment.  The IT investment processes shall encompass planning, budgeting, 
procurement, management, and assessment.  For further guidance related to investment 
planning, refer to OMB Circular A-11, including the Capital Programming Guide. At a 
minimum, agencies shall ensure that: 
a) All IT resources (see “Information Technology Resources” definition) are included 
in IT investment planning documents or artifacts; 
b) Decisions related to major IT investments are supported by business cases with 
appropriate evidence;  
c) IT investments implement an agile development approach, as appropriate;19 
d) IT investments support and enable core mission and operational functions and 
processes related to the agency’s missions and business requirements; 
e) IT capital investment plans and budgetary requests are reviewed to ensure that 
Government-wide requirements, as well as any associated costs, are explicitly 
identified and included, with respect to any IT resources.  This includes IT resources 
that will be used to create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, 
disclose, or dispose of PII; and 
                                                          
 
19 For additional information, refer to OMB memoranda at https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda_default. 
 
 
13 
 
f) Decisions to improve, enhance, or modernize existing IT investments or to develop 
new IT investments are made only after conducting an alternatives analysis that 
includes both government-provided (internal, interagency, and intra-agency where 
applicable) and commercially available options, and the option representing the best 
value to the Government has been selected. 
4) Selection Criteria and Requirements 
Agencies shall consider the following factors when analyzing IT investments: 
a) Qualitative and quantitative research methods are used to determine the goals, needs, 
and behaviors of current and prospective managers and users of the service to 
strengthen the understanding of requirements;  
b) All decisions concerning the selection of information system technologies and 
services – including decisions to acquire or develop custom or duplicative solutions 
– shall be merit-based and consider factors such as, but not limited to, ability to meet 
operational or mission requirements, total life cycle cost of ownership, performance, 
security, interoperability, privacy, accessibility, ability to share or reuse, resources 
required to switch vendors, and availability of quality support.  Consistent with the 
FAR, contracts for custom software development are to include contractual 
provisions that reaffirm the right to reuse the software throughout the Federal 
Government; 
c) Agencies shall consider use of suitable existing Federal information technology 
resources and commercially-available solutions in order to ensure effective 
management of Federal resources.  Consistent with law and regulation, agencies 
should consider and evaluate the suitability of existing Federal information 
technologies and related services, including software, Federal shared services, and 
commercially-available solutions before embarking upon new developments of 
software and information technologies; and  
d) Information systems security levels are commensurate with the impact that may 
result from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or 
destruction of such information consistent with NIST standards and guidelines. 
5) IT Investment Design and Management 
Agencies shall implement the following requirements:  
a) Information systems and processes must support and maximize interoperability and 
access to information, where appropriate, by using documented, scalable, and 
continuously available application programming interfaces and open machine-
readable formats;  
b) IT investments must facilitate interoperability, application portability, and scalability 
across networks of heterogeneous hardware, software, and communications 
platforms; 
c) Information systems, technologies, and processes shall facilitate accessibility under 
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; in particular, see specific electronic and 
 
 
14 
 
IT accessibility requirements commonly known as “section 508” requirements (29 
U.S.C. § 794d); 
d) Records management functions and retention and disposition requirements must be 
fully incorporated into information life cycle processes and stages, including the 
design, development, implementation, and decommissioning of information systems, 
particularly Internet resources to include storage solutions and cloud-based services 
such as software as a service, platform as a service, and infrastructure as a service; 
and 
e) IT investments use an Earned Value Management System (EVMS) and Integrated 
Baseline Review, when appropriate, as required by FAR Subpart 34.2.  When an 
EVMS is required, agencies must have a documented process for accepting a 
contractor’s EVMS.  Agencies are encouraged to share information about their 
acceptance process with other agencies and to consider recognizing each other’s 
acceptance of an EVMS so that a contractor is not required to complete a duplicative 
process.  When an EVMS is not required, implement a baseline validation process as 
part of an overall investment risk management strategy consistent with OMB 
guidance. 
e. Information Management and Access   
1) Agencies shall incorporate the following steps, as appropriate, in planning, budgeting, 
governance, and other policies: 
a) Federal information is properly managed throughout its life cycle, including all 
stages through which the information passes, such as: creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposition;  
b) Federal information is managed by making information accessible, discoverable, and 
usable by the public to the extent permitted by law and subject to privacy, security 
(which includes confidentiality), or other valid restrictions pertaining to access, use, 
dissemination, and disclosure;  
c) Federal information is managed consistent with applicable records retention and 
disposition requirements; 
d) Federal information and information systems are managed in a manner that identifies 
and mitigates privacy and security risks; and 
e) Federal information is managed with clearly designated roles and responsibilities to 
promote effective and efficient design and operation of information resources 
management processes within their agency. 
2) Agencies have a responsibility to provide information to the public consistent with their 
missions and subject to Federal law and policy.  Agencies will discharge this 
responsibility by: 
a) Publishing public information online in a manner that promotes analysis and reuse 
for the widest possible range of purposes, meaning that the information is publicly 
accessible, machine-readable, appropriately described, complete, and timely.  This 
 
 
15 
 
includes providing such public information in a format(s) accessible to employees 
and members of the public with disabilities;20   
b) Avoiding establishing, or permitting others to establish on their behalf, exclusive, 
restricted, or other distribution arrangements that interfere with the agency’s ability 
to disseminate its public information on a timely and equitable basis; 
c) Avoiding charging fees or royalties for public information or establishing 
unnecessary restrictions on the resale or re-dissemination of public information by 
the public.  Agencies shall not, unless specifically authorized by statute, establish 
fees that exceed the cost of dissemination to the public, restrict or regulate the use, 
resale, or re-dissemination of public information by the public; or establish any 
mechanism that interferes with the timely and equitable availability of public 
information to the public;21  
d) As appropriate, making Government publications available to depository libraries 
through the Government Publishing Office regardless of format;22  
e) Taking advantage of all dissemination channels, including Federal, State, local, 
tribal, and territorial governments, libraries and educational institutions, for-profit 
and nonprofit organizations, and private sector entities, in discharging agency 
information dissemination responsibilities; and  
f) Considering the impact of providing agency information and services over the 
Internet for individuals who do not own computers or lack Internet access and, to the 
extent practicable, pursuing additional or alternative modes of delivery to ensure that 
such information and services are accessible to, and their availability is not 
diminished for, such individuals.   
3) Agencies shall establish policies, procedures, and standards that enable data governance 
so that information is managed and maintained according to relevant statute, regulations, 
and guidance. 
4) Agencies shall collect or create information in a way that supports downstream 
interoperability among information systems and streamlines dissemination to the public, 
where appropriate, by creating or collecting all new information electronically by 
default, in machine-readable open formats, using relevant data standards, that upon 
creation includes standard extensible metadata in accordance with OMB guidance. 
5) Agencies shall include appropriate provisions in contracts, and other agreements, to 
encourage recipients of Federal funding to maximize access to data developed under an 
award and to prepare data management plans that describe data to be created in funded 
programs and approaches for long-term preservation and access to created data. 
                                                          
 
20 Pursuant to Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. § 794d). 
21 Pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1980, as amended by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 
(44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). 
22 Pursuant to the Depository Library Act of 1962 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 19).  
 
 
16 
 
6) Agencies shall ensure that there is a mechanism for the public to provide feedback about 
public information. 
7) Agencies shall manage information in accordance with the following principles as 
appropriate: 
a) Providing notice of Federal agency practices for the creation, collection, use, 
processing, preservation, storage, maintenance, disclosure, dissemination, and 
disposal of information, as appropriate; 
b) Providing adequate notice when initiating, substantially modifying, or terminating 
dissemination of significant information that the public may be using; 
c) Identifying the source of the information disseminated to the public, if from outside 
the agency, where practicable; 
d) Considering target audiences of Federal information when determining format, 
frequency of update, and other information management decisions; 
e) Considering the impact of decisions and actions in each stage of the information life 
cycle on other stages; 
f) Considering the effects of information management actions on members of the 
public and State, local, tribal and territorial governments and their access to Federal 
information and ensure consultation with the public and those governments as 
appropriate; 
g) Seeking to satisfy new information needs through interagency or intergovernmental 
sharing of information, or through nongovernmental sources, where lawful and 
appropriate, before creating or collecting new information; and 
h) Complying with all applicable statutes and policies governing the disclosure or 
dissemination of information, including those related to the quality, privacy, security, 
accessibility, and other valid access, use, and dissemination restrictions. 
f. Privacy and Information Security23   
1) Privacy  
Agencies shall:  
a) Establish and maintain a comprehensive privacy program that ensures compliance 
with applicable privacy requirements, develops and evaluates privacy policy, and 
manages privacy risks;24 
b) Designate an SAOP who has agency-wide responsibility and accountability for 
developing, implementing, and maintaining an agency-wide privacy program to 
                                                          
 
23 Although this section includes requirements for protecting Federal information resources, this area is covered 
more fully in the Appendices to this Circular. 
24 When considering privacy risks, privacy programs shall consider the risks to an individual or individuals 
associated with the agency’s creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, 
or disposal of their PII. 
 
 
17 
 
ensure compliance with all applicable statutes, regulations, and policies regarding the 
creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, 
and disposal of PII by programs and information systems, developing and evaluating 
privacy policy, and managing privacy risks at the agency;25  
c) Monitor Federal law, regulation, and policy for changes that affect privacy; 
d) Limit the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, 
and disclosure of PII to that which is legally authorized, relevant, and reasonably 
deemed necessary for the proper performance of agency functions;  
e) To the extent reasonably practicable, ensure that PII is accurate, relevant, timely, and 
complete, and reduce all PII to the minimum necessary for the proper performance of 
authorized agency functions; 
f) Take steps to eliminate unnecessary collection, maintenance, and use of Social 
Security numbers, and explore alternatives to the use of Social Security numbers as a 
personal identifier; 
g) Comply with all applicable privacy-related laws, including the requirements of the 
Privacy Act,26 and ensure that the Privacy Act system of records notices are 
published, revised, and rescinded, as required;   
h) Maintain all records with PII in accordance with applicable records retention or 
disposition schedules approved by the National Archives and Records 
Administration (NARA); 
i) Conduct privacy impact assessments when developing, procuring, or using IT, in 
accordance with the E-Government Act,27 and make the privacy impact assessments 
available to the public in accordance with OMB policy;  
j) Maintain and post privacy policies on all agency websites, mobile applications, and 
other digital services, in accordance with the E-Government Act and OMB policy; 
and  
k) Ensure that the SAOP and the agency’s privacy personnel closely coordinate with 
the agency CIO, senior agency information security officer, and other agency offices 
and officials, as appropriate.  
                                                          
 
25 The SAOP shall be designated by the head of the agency, pursuant to Executive Order 13719, Establishment of 
the Federal Privacy Council (2016), and OMB guidance. 
26 Agencies should also consult OMB policies on privacy, and OMB Circular A-108, Federal Agency 
Responsibilities for Review, Reporting, and Publication under the Privacy Act. 
27 Section 208(b) of the E-Government Act requires agencies, absent an applicable exception under that section, to 
conduct a PIA before: (i) developing or procuring IT that collects, maintains, or disseminates information that is in 
an identifiable form; or (ii) initiating a new collection of information that – (I) will be collected, maintained, or 
disseminated using IT; and (II) includes any information in an identifiable form permitting the physical or online 
contacting of a specific individual, if identical questions have been posed to, or identical reporting requirements 
imposed on, 10 or more persons, other than agencies, instrumentalities, or employees of the Federal Government. 
 
 
18 
 
2) Information Security  
To provide proper safeguards, agencies shall:  
a) Ensure that the CIO designates a senior agency information security officer to 
develop and maintain an agency-wide information security program in accordance 
with the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA);  
b) Protect information in a manner commensurate with the risk that would result from 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of such 
information; and 
c) Implement security policies issued by OMB, as well as requirements issued by the 
Department of Commerce, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the 
General Services Administration (GSA), and the Office of Personnel Management 
(OPM).  This includes applying the standards and guidelines contained in the NIST 
FIPS, NIST SPs (e.g., 800 series guidelines), and where appropriate and directed by 
OMB, NIST Interagency or Internal Reports (NISTIRs).28  
g. Electronic Signatures29 
To support the transition to electronic government, agencies shall: 
1) Allow individuals or entities that deal with the agencies the option to submit information 
or transact with the agency electronically, when practicable, and for agencies to maintain 
records electronically, when practicable.  Electronic records and their related electronic 
signatures are not to be denied legal effect, validity, or enforceability merely because 
they are in electronic form;30   
2) Promote the use of electronic contract formation, signatures, and recordkeeping in private 
commerce by establishing legal equivalence between: contracts written on paper and 
contracts in electronic form; pen-and-ink signatures and electronic signatures; and other 
legally required written documents (termed “records”) and the same information in 
electronic form; and 31   
                                                          
 
28 NISTIRs describe research of a technical nature of interest to a specialized audience. 
29 In support of Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) and Electronic Signatures in Global and National 
Commerce Act (E-Sign), the Federal Chief Information Officers Council maintains guidance on use of Electronic 
Signatures (E-Signatures) in Federal organization transactions.  The Federal Chief Information Officers Council 
guidance, Use of Electronic Signatures in Federal Organization Transactions, can be located at 
https://www.idmanagement.gov.  This guidance expands upon OMB guidance. 
30 Pursuant to the Government Paperwork Elimination Act of 1998 (44 U.S.C. § 3504). 
31 Pursuant to E-Sign (15 U.S.C. Chapter 96).  E-Sign applies broadly to commercial, consumer, and business 
transactions affecting interstate or foreign commerce, and to transactions regulated by both Federal and State 
Government. 
 
 
19 
 
3) Develop and implement processes to support use of digital signatures, a form of 
electronic signature, for employees and contractors.32 
h. Records Management 
Agencies shall: 
1) Designate a senior agency official for records management (SAORM) who has overall 
agency-wide responsibility for records management;  
2) Institute records management programs that provide documentation of agency 
activities;33  
3) Manage electronic records in accordance with Government-wide requirements. This 
includes: 
a) Managing all permanent electronic records electronically to the fullest extent 
possible for eventual transfer and accessioning by NARA in an electronic format; 
and  
b) Managing all email records electronically and retaining them in an appropriate 
electronic system that supports records management and litigation requirements, 
including the capability to identify, retrieve, and retain the records for as long as they 
are needed; 
4) Ensure the ability to access, retrieve, and manage records throughout their life cycle 
regardless of form or medium; 
5) Ensure agency records managed by the SAORM are treated as information resources and 
follow the requirements in this Circular; 
6) Establish and obtain the approval of the Archivist of the United States for retention 
schedules for Federal records in a timely fashion; 
7) Ensure the proper and timely disposition of Federal records in accordance with a 
retention schedule approved by the Archivist of the United States; and 
8) Provide training and guidance, as appropriate, to all agency employees and contractors 
regarding their Federal records management responsibilities. 
i. Leveraging the Evolving Internet   
In a global and connected economy, it is essential for the United States and the Federal 
Government to strive to ensure that Internet-based technologies remain competitive.  The 
Federal Government needs to continue to lead in innovation, contribute to the free flow of 
information, participate in an open and available market, and do this in a way that is scalable 
and secure.  Networking demands, escalating with the continued emergence of connecting 
technologies, has grown well beyond initial capabilities.  The use of the newest Internet 
Protocol (currently, Internet Protocol Version 6 [IPv6]) is an essential part of accomplishing 
                                                          
 
32 Digital signatures can help agencies streamline mission or business processes and transition manual processes to 
more automated processes to include, for example, online transactions. 
33 Additional information regarding adequate and proper documentation is available in 36 C.F.R. § 1222.22. 
 
 
20 
 
these goals and ensuring that the network infrastructure can meet our needs for growing 
capacity, security, and privacy, and keep the United States competitive in the ever-escalating 
global electronic economy.  Therefore, agencies shall: 
1) Implement agency-wide processes requiring that all IT acquisitions using Internet 
Protocol conform to the FAR; and34 
2) Ensure that all public-facing Internet services and enterprise networks fully support the 
newest version of Internet Protocol as required by OMB policy. 
6. Government-wide Responsibilities 
a. Department of Commerce  
The Secretary of Commerce shall:  
1) Develop and issue standards and guidelines for the security and privacy of information 
in Federal information systems and systems which create, collect, process, store, 
transmit, disseminate, or dispose of information on behalf of the Federal Government;35  
2) Provide OMB and the agencies with scientific and technical advisory services relating to 
the development and use of IT;36 
3) Conduct studies and evaluations concerning telecommunications technology, and the 
improvement, expansion, testing, operation, and use of Federal telecommunications 
systems, and advise the Director of OMB and appropriate agencies of the 
recommendations that result from such studies;37 
4) Develop, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of OMB, plans, 
policies, and programs relating to international telecommunications issues affecting 
Federal information activities;38 
5) Identify needs for standardization of telecommunications and information processing 
technology, and develop standards, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the 
Administrator of General Services, to ensure efficient application of such technology;39  
                                                          
 
34 When acquiring information technology using Internet Protocol, agencies must include the appropriate Internet 
Protocol compliance requirements in accordance with § 11.002(g) of the FAR.  For 
additional information, refer to https://www.acquisition.gov/. 
35 National Institute of Standards and Technologies (NIST) Act, 15 U.S.C. § 278g-3. 
36 Pursuant to the NIST Act (15 U.S.C. § 278g-3). 
37 Pursuant to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) Organization Act, as 
amended (47 U.S.C. § 902(b)(2)(F)). 
38 Pursuant to the NTIA Organization Act, as amended (47 U.S.C. §902(b)(2)(G)). 
39 Pursuant to the NIST Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 272(b), 278g-3, and OMB A-119, Federal Participation in the 
Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities. 
 
 
21 
 
6) Ensure that the Federal Government is represented in the development of national and 
international (in consultation with the Secretary of State) IT standards, and advise the 
Director of OMB on such activities;40 
7) Evaluate new information technologies to assess their security vulnerabilities, with 
technical assistance from the Department of Defense (DOD) and DHS;  
8) Solicit and consider the recommendations of the Information Security and Privacy 
Advisory Board regarding such standards and guidelines;41 and   
9) Lead the development of a Cybersecurity Framework to reduce cyber risks to critical 
infrastructure pursuant to Executive Order 13636, Improving Critical Infrastructure 
Cybersecurity.  
b. Department of Homeland Security 
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall:42 
1) Perform its responsibilities under FISMA, including assisting OMB in carrying out its 
statutory authorities and functions of information security oversight and policy 
responsibilities;43 
2) Develop and oversee the implementation of binding operational directives pursuant to 
FISMA;44  
3) Monitor agency implementation of information security policies and practices;  
4) Convene meetings with senior agency officials to help ensure effective implementation 
of information security policies and procedures;  
5) Coordinate Government-wide efforts on information security policies and practices, 
including consultation with the Federal Chief Information Officers Council, and the 
Director of NIST; 
6) Provide operational and technical assistance to agencies in implementing policies, 
principles, standards, and guidelines on information security, including implementation 
of standards promulgated under 40 U.S.C. § 11331, including by:   
a) Operating the Federal information security incident center established under 44 
U.S.C. § 3556;  
b) Upon request by an agency, deploying technology to assist the agency to 
continuously diagnose and mitigate cyber threats and vulnerabilities, with or without 
reimbursement;  
                                                          
 
40 Pursuant to NIST Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 272(b), 273, 278g–3 and OMB A-119, Federal Participation in the 
Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in Conformity Assessment Activities. 
41 Pursuant to the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. §278g–4). 
42 Pursuant to FISMA (44 U.S.C. § 3553). 
43 FISMA, 44 U.S.C. § 3553(b)(1). 
44 FISMA, 44 U.S.C. § 3553(b)(2). 
 
 
22 
 
c) Compiling and analyzing data on agency information security; and 
d) Developing and conducting targeted operational evaluations, including threat and 
vulnerability assessments, on the information systems; 
7) Consult with the Director of NIST regarding any binding operational directives that 
implements the standards and guidelines developed by NIST; 
8) Coordinate the development of binding operational directives and the oversight of the 
implementation of such directives with OMB to ensure consistency with OMB policies; 
9) Ensure that binding operational directives do not conflict with the guidelines issued 
under 40 U.S.C. § 11331; 
10) Take other actions as the Director of OMB or the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Director of OMB, may determine necessary to carry out the implementation of effective 
agency information security policies and practices for information systems;  
11) Manage Government-wide information security programs and provide and operate 
Federal information security shared services, in coordination with OMB and in 
accordance with OMB policies; 
12) Provide, as appropriate, intelligence and other information about cyber threats, 
vulnerabilities, and incidents to agencies to assist in risk assessments conducted under 
FISMA;45 and 
13) Solicit and consider the recommendations of the Information Security Privacy Advisory 
Board, established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (NIST 
Act).46  
c. Federal Chief Information Officers Council (Federal CIO Council) 
Pursuant to the E-Government Act of 2002, the Federal CIO Council shall:47 
1) Develop recommendations for OMB on Government information resources management 
policies and requirements; 
2) Share experiences, ideas, best practices, and innovative approaches related to 
information resources management;  
3) Assist OMB in the identification, development, and coordination of multiagency projects 
and other innovation initiatives to improve Federal Government performance through 
use of IT; 
4) Promote the development and use of common performance measures for agency 
information resources management, as further described in statute;  
                                                          
 
45 44 U.S.C. § 3556(a)(4). 
46 Pursuant to DHS current practices. 
47 E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. § 3603). 
 
 
23 
 
5) Work as appropriate with NIST and OMB to develop recommendations on IT standards 
developed under the NIST Act and promulgated under section 11331 of title 40, and 
maximize the use of commercial standards, as further described in statute; 
6) Work with OPM to assess and address the hiring, training, classification, and 
professional development needs of the Federal Government related to information 
resources management; 
7) Work with the Archivist of the United States to assess how the Federal Records Act can 
be addressed effectively by Federal information resources management activities; and 
8) Solicit perspectives from the Chief Financial Officers Council, Federal Acquisition 
Officers Council, Chief Human Capital Officers’ Council, Budget Officers Advisory 
Council, and other key groups in the Federal Government, as well as industry, academia, 
and other Federal, State, local, tribal and territorial governments, on matters of concern 
to the Council as appropriate. 
d. Federal Privacy Council 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13719, the Federal Privacy Council shall:48   
1) Develop recommendations for OMB on Federal Government privacy policies and 
requirements; 
2) Coordinate and share ideas, best practices, and approaches for protecting privacy and 
implementing appropriate privacy safeguards; 
3) Assess and recommend how best to address the hiring, training, and professional 
development needs of the Federal Government with respect to privacy matters;  
4) Perform other privacy-related functions, consistent with law, as designated by the Chair 
of the Federal Privacy Council; and 
5) In performing its duties, engage in appropriate coordination as described in Executive 
Order 13719.49 
                                                          
 
48 Executive Order 13719, Establishment of the Federal Privacy Council (2016). 
49 Executive Order 13719, Establishment of the Federal Privacy Council (2016 )at § 4(d), “Coordination”: 
(i) The Chair and the Privacy Council shall coordinate with the Federal Chief Information Officers Council 
(CIO Council) to promote consistency and efficiency across the executive branch when addressing privacy 
and information security issues. In addition, the Chairs of the Privacy Council and the CIO Council shall 
coordinate to ensure that the work of the two councils is complementary and not duplicative. 
(ii) The Chair and the Privacy Council should coordinate, as appropriate, with such other interagency councils 
and councils and offices within the Executive Office of the President, as appropriate, including the 
President’s Management Council, the Chief Financial Officers Council, the President’s Council on Integrity 
and Efficiency, the National Science and Technology Council, the National Economic Council, the Domestic 
Policy Council, the National Security Council staff, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the 
Interagency Council on Statistical Policy, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, and the Small Agency 
Council. 
 
 
24 
 
e. General Services Administration 
The Administrator of General Services shall:  
1) Provide a Government-wide network services contract that leverages shared solutions 
for many agencies;50 
2) Ensure that contract vehicles and services made available to agencies are cost-effective 
and provide for capabilities that are consistent with Government-wide requirements;51  
3) Assist OMB in setting strategic direction for electronic government and overseeing 
Government-wide implementation, and recommend changes relating to Government-
wide strategies and priorities;52 
4) Promote innovative uses of IT by agencies, particularly initiatives involving multiagency 
collaboration, through support of pilot projects, research, experimentation, and the use of 
innovative technologies;53 
5) Maintain a Federal public key infrastructure (PKI) framework to allow efficient 
interoperability among agencies when using digital certificates;54 and 
6) Ensure that effective controls are in place to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the Federal PKI framework components managed and overseen by the 
agency, to include performing information security continuous monitoring of the Federal 
PKI. 
f. National Archives and Records Administration 
The Archivist of the United States shall:  
1) Administer the Federal Records Act and NARA regulations (36 CFR Subchapter B—
Records Management);55  
2) Develop regulations relating to electronic records management;56 
3) Work with agencies to ensure the transfer of permanent Federal electronic records to the 
National Archives of the United States in digital or electronic form to the greatest extent 
possible;57 
                                                          
 
50 Pursuant to the Clinger-Cohen Act (also known as the “Information Technology Management Reform Act of 
1996”) (40 U.S.C. § 11314(b)). 
51 Pursuant to the Clinger-Cohen Act (also known as the “Information Technology Management Reform Act of 
1996”) (40 U.S.C. §§ 11302, 11314(a)). 
52 Pursuant to the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. § 3602).  
53 Pursuant to the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. § 3602). 
54 Federal PKI provides the government with a common infrastructure to administer digital certificates and public-
private key pairs, including the ability to issue, maintain, and revoke public key certificates. 
55 Pursuant to the Federal Records Act of 1950, as amended, codified (44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, 33). 
56 Pursuant to the Federal Records Act of 1950, as amended, codified (44 U.S.C. Chapters 31 and 33). 
57 Pursuant to the Federal Records Act of 1950, as amended, codified (44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, 33). 
 
 
25 
 
4) Ensure agency compliance with records management requirements, provide records 
management training, and facilitate public access to high-value Government records;58 
and  
5) Serve as the Executive Agent for the Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) 
program.59 
 
g. Office of Personnel Management  
The Administrator of the Office of Personnel Management shall:60 
1) Analyze, on an ongoing basis, the workforce needs of the Federal Government related to 
IT and information resources management, in conjunction with relevant agencies;  
2) Identify training needs of the Federal Government workforce related to IT and 
information resources management; 
3) Oversee the development of curricula, training methods, and training priorities that 
correspond to the projected personnel needs related to IT and information resources 
management; and 
4) Assess the training of employees in IT disciplines to address information resources 
management needs. 
7. Effectiveness  
This Circular is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or 
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its 
departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 
8. Oversight 
The Director of OMB shall use IT planning reviews, fiscal budget reviews, information 
collection reviews, management reviews, and such other measures as the Director deems 
necessary to evaluate the adequacy and efficiency of each agency’s information resources 
management and compliance with this Circular.  
The Director of OMB may, consistent with statute and upon written request of an agency, grant a 
waiver from particular requirements of this Circular.  Requests for waivers must detail the 
reasons why a particular waiver is sought, identify the duration of the waiver sought, and include 
a plan for the prompt and orderly transition to full compliance with the requirements of this 
Circular.  Notice of each waiver request must be published promptly by the agency in the Federal 
Register, with a copy of the waiver request made available to the public on request. 
                                                          
 
58 Pursuant to the Federal Records Act of 1950, as amended, codified (44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, 33). 
59 Pursuant to Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information. 
60 Pursuant to the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. § 3501 note; Pub. L. 107–347, § 209(b)(1)). 
 
 
26 
 
9. Authority 
OMB issues this Circular pursuant to the Clinger-Cohen Act (also known as the “Information 
Technology Management Reform Act of 1996”) (40 U.S.C. § 11101-11704); E-Government Act 
of 2002 (44 U.S.C. Chapters 35 and 36); Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 
2014 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, Subchapter II); Federal Information Technology Acquisition 
Reform Act (FITARA) (Pub. L. 113-291)61; Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1980, as 
amended by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35); Privacy Act of 1974, 
as amended (5 U.S.C. § 552a); Digital Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 
113-101); Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign) (15 U.S.C. 
Chapter 96); Government Paperwork Elimination Act of 1998 (44 U.S.C. § 3504); Government 
Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993, as amended by the Government Performance and 
Results Modernization Act (GPRA Modernization Act) of 2010 (5 U.S.C. § 306 and 31 U.S.C. 
§§ 1115 et seq.); Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. Chapter 7); Budget and 
Accounting Procedures Act of 1950, as amended (31 U.S.C. Chapter 11); Chief Financial 
Officers Act (31 U.S.C. § 3512 et seq.); and Executive Order 13719, Establishment of the 
Federal Privacy Council (2016). 
 
10. Definitions  
a. The following definitions are applicable within this policy: 
1) ‘Accessibility’ means information technology products or services that are in full 
compliance with the standards of section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.62   
2) ‘Adequate security’ means security protections commensurate with the risk resulting 
from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of 
information.  This includes ensuring that information hosted on behalf of an agency and 
information systems and applications used by the agency operate effectively and provide 
appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability protections through the application 
of cost-effective security controls. 
3) ‘Agency’ means any executive agency or department, military department, Federal 
Government corporation, Federal Government-controlled corporation, or other 
establishment in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, or any independent 
regulatory agency. 
4) ‘Agency Strategic Plan’ means a plan that provides general and long-term goals that the 
agency aims to achieve, the actions the agency will take to realize those goals, the 
                                                          
 
61 Title VIII, Subtitle D of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2015, Pub. L. 113-291.  
Further references in the text that refer to “FITARA” refer to these sections. 
62 The United States Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board’s (Access Board) Information and 
Communication Technology Standards and Guidelines for information and communications technologies (ICT), 
known as the Section 508 Standards.  The 508 standards apply to ICT developed, procured, maintained, or used by 
Federal agencies covered by section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. § 794d), as amended.  
Accessibility also refers to the guidelines for telecommunications equipment and customer premises equipment 
covered by Section 255 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. § 151 et seq.). 
 
 
27 
 
strategies planned, how the agency will deal with challenges and risks that may hinder 
achieving results, and the approaches it will use to monitor its progress.63 
5) ‘Agile Development’ means a development methodology that uses an iterative approach 
to deliver solutions incrementally through close collaboration and frequent reassessment.  
6) ‘Authorization to Operate’ means the official management decision given by a senior 
Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to 
explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or 
reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the 
implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls.  Authorization 
also applies to common controls inherited by agency information systems.  
7) ‘Authorization boundary’ means all components of an information system to be 
authorized for operation by an authorizing official.  This excludes separately authorized 
systems to which the information system is connected.64 
8) ‘Authorization package’ means the essential information that an authorizing official uses 
to determine whether to authorize the operation of an information system or the use of a 
designated set of common controls.  At a minimum, the authorization package includes 
the information system security plan, privacy plan, security control assessment, privacy 
control assessment, and any relevant plans of action and milestones. 
9) ‘Authorizing official’ means a senior Federal official or executive with the authority to 
authorize (i.e., assume responsibility for) the operation of an information system or the 
use a designated set of common controls at an acceptable level of risk to agency 
operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, 
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
10) ‘Binding Operational Directive’ means a compulsory direction from the Department of 
Homeland Security to an agency that is for the purposes of safeguarding Federal 
information and information systems from a known or reasonably suspected information 
security threat, vulnerability, or risk; shall be in accordance with policies, principles, 
standards, and guidelines issued by the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget; and may be revised or repealed by the Director if the direction issued on behalf 
of the Director is not in accordance with policies and principles developed by the 
Director (44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
11) ‘Business Continuity Plan’ means a plan that focuses on sustaining an organization’s 
mission or business processes during and after a disruption, and may be written for 
                                                          
 
63 For additional information, refer to the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993, as amended 
by the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act (GPRA Modernization Act) of 2010 (5 U.S.C. § 
306 and 31 U.S.C. § 1115 et seq.); and OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget. 
64 Agencies have significant flexibility in determining what constitutes an information system and its associated 
boundary. 
 
 
28 
 
mission or business processes within a single business unit or may address the entire 
organization’s processes.65 
12) ‘Chief Information Officer’ means the senior official that provides advice and other 
assistance to the head of the agency and other senior management personnel of the 
agency to ensure that IT is acquired and information resources are managed for the 
agency in a manner that achieves the agency’s strategic goals and information resources 
management goals; and is responsible for ensuring agency compliance with, and prompt, 
efficient, and effective implementation of, the information policies and information 
resources management responsibilities, including the reduction of information collection 
burdens on the public. 
13) ‘Chief Information Officers Council’ means the Council codified in the E-Government 
Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C § 101). 
14) ‘Common control’ means a security or privacy control that is inherited by multiple 
information systems or programs.66 
15) ‘Controlled Unclassified Information’ means information that requires safeguarding or 
dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with law, regulations, and 
Government-wide policies, excluding information classified under Executive Order 
13526 of December 29, 2009, or the Atomic Energy Act, as amended. 
16) ‘Critical infrastructure’ means systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to 
the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets would 
have a debilitating impact on security, national economic security, national public health 
safety, or any combination of those matters (42 U.S.C. § 5195c(e)). 
17) ‘Cybersecurity’ means prevention of damage to, protection of, and restoration of 
computers, electronic communications systems, electronic communications services, 
wire communication, and electronic communication, including information contained 
therein, to ensure its availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-
repudiation. 
18) ‘Dissemination’ means the government-initiated distribution of information to a 
nongovernment entity, including the public.  The term ‘dissemination,’ as used within 
this Circular, does not include distribution limited to Federal Government employees, 
intra- or interagency use or sharing of Federal information, and responses to requests for 
agency records under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. § 552) or the Privacy 
Act (5 U.S.C. § 552a). 
19) ‘Enterprise architecture’ (a) means – (i) a strategic information asset base, which defines 
the mission; (ii) the information necessary to perform the mission; (iii) the technologies 
necessary to perform the mission; and (iv) the transitional processes for implementing 
                                                          
 
65 The Federal Information Security Modernization Act (44 U.S.C. § 3554(b))) requires each agency to develop, 
document, and implement an agency-wide information security program that includes plans and procedures to 
ensure continuity of operations for information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency. 
66 A control is inherited by an information system when the control is selected for the system but the control is 
developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system. 
 
 
 
29 
 
new technologies in response to changing mission needs; and (b) includes – (i) a 
baseline architecture; (ii) a target architecture; and (iii) a sequencing plan (44 U.S.C. § 
3601). 
20) ‘Environment of operation’ means the physical surroundings in which an information 
system processes, stores, and transmits information. 
21) ‘Executive agency’ has the meaning defined in Title 41, Public Contracts section 133 
(41 U.S.C. § 133). 
22) ‘Federal information’ means information created, collected, processed,  maintained, 
disseminated, disclosed, or disposed of by or for the Federal Government, in any 
medium or form.  
23) ‘Federal information system’ means an information system used or operated by an 
agency or by a contractor of an agency or by another organization on behalf of an 
agency. 
24) ‘Federal Privacy Council’ means the Council established by Executive Order 13719.67 
25) ‘Government publication’ means information that is published as an individual 
document at Government expense, or as required by law, in any medium or form (44 
U.S.C. § 1901). 
26) ‘Hybrid control’ means a security or privacy control that is implemented for an 
information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control. 
27) ‘Incident’ means an occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful 
authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information 
system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security 
policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies (44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
28)  ‘Information’ means any communication or representation of knowledge such as facts, 
data, or opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, 
cartographic, narrative, electronic, or audiovisual forms. 
29) ‘Information dissemination product’ means any recorded information, regardless of 
physical form or characteristics, disseminated by an agency, or contractor thereof, to the 
public. 
30) ‘Information life cycle’ means the stages through which information passes, typically 
characterized as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use, storage, and 
disposition, to include destruction and deletion. 
31) ‘Information management’ means the planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling 
of information throughout its life cycle.  The term encompasses both information itself 
and the related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information 
technology. 
32) ‘Information resources’ means information and related resources, such as personnel, 
equipment, funds, and information technology (44 U.S.C. § 3502). 
                                                          
 
67 Executive Order 13719, Establishment of the Federal Privacy Council (2016). 
 
 
30 
 
33) ‘Information resources management’ means the process of managing information 
resources to accomplish agency missions.  The term encompasses an agency’s 
information and the related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and 
information technology (44 U.S.C. § 3502). 
34) ‘Information Resource Management Strategy’ means a strategy that demonstrates how 
information resources management decisions are integrated with organizational 
planning, budget, procurement, financial management, human resources management, 
and program decisions (44 U.S.C. 3506 (b)(2)). 
35) ‘Information security’ means the protection of information and information systems 
from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in 
order to provide:  
a) Integrity, which means guarding against improper information modification or 
destruction, and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity;  
b) Confidentiality, which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and 
disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary 
information; and  
c) Availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of 
information (44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
36) ‘Information security architecture’ means an embedded, integral part of the enterprise 
architecture that describes the structure and behavior of the enterprise security processes, 
information security systems, personnel, and organizational subunits, showing their 
alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. 
37) ‘Information security continuous monitoring’ means maintaining ongoing awareness of 
information security, vulnerabilities, threats, and incidents to support agency risk 
management decisions.68 
38) ‘Information security continuous monitoring program’ means the compendium of 
methods, tools, and techniques necessary to implement the agency information 
continuous monitoring strategy in a way that is sufficient to inform risk-based decisions 
and maintain operations within established risk tolerances.  The program includes 
determining monitoring metrics, establishing monitoring frequencies, and developing a 
monitoring architecture. 
39) ‘Information security continuous monitoring strategy’ means a comprehensive plan to 
address monitoring requirements and activities at each organizational tier (organization, 
mission or business process, and information system).  
40) ‘Information system security plan’ means a formal document that provides an overview 
of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security 
controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.69  
                                                          
 
68 The terms continuous and ongoing in this context mean that security controls and agency risks are assessed and 
analyzed at a frequency sufficient to support risk-based security decisions to adequately protect agency information. 
69 The information system security plan and the privacy plan may be integrated into one consolidated document.   
 
 
31 
 
41) ‘Information security program plan’ means a formal document that provides an overview 
of the security requirements for an organization-wide information security program and 
describes the program management controls and common controls in place or planned 
for meeting those requirements.  
42) ‘Information system’ means a discrete set of information resources organized for the 
collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of 
information (44 U.S.C. § 3502). 
43) ‘Information system life cycle’ means all phases in the useful life of an information 
system, including planning, acquiring, operating, maintaining, and disposing.  (See also 
OMB A-11 Part 7, Capital Programming Guide and OMB Circular A-131, Value 
Engineering for more information regarding the costs and management of assets through 
their complete life cycle.)  
44) ‘Information system resilience’ means the ability of an information system to operate 
under adverse conditions or stress, even if in a degraded or debilitated state, while 
maintaining essential operational capabilities, and to recover to an effective operational 
posture in a time frame consistent with mission needs. 
45) ‘Information technology’ means any services or equipment, or interconnected system(s) 
or subsystem(s) of equipment, that are used in the automatic acquisition, storage, 
analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, 
interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the agency.  For 
purposes of this definition, such services or equipment if used by the agency directly or 
is used by a contractor under a contract with the agency that requires its use; or to a 
significant extent, its use in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product.  
The term “information technology” includes computers, ancillary equipment (including 
imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and 
surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing 
unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including cloud 
computing and help-desk services or other professional services which support any point 
of the life cycle of the equipment or service), and related resources.  The term 
“information technology” does not include any equipment that is acquired by a 
contractor incidental to a contract which does not require its use (40 U.S.C. § 11101). 
46) ‘Information technology investment’ means an expenditure of information technology 
resources to address mission delivery and management support.  This may include a 
project or projects for the development, modernization, enhancement, or maintenance of 
a single information technology asset or group of information technology assets with 
related functionality, and the subsequent operation of those assets in a production 
environment.  These investments shall have a defined life cycle with start and end dates, 
with the end date representing the end of the currently estimated useful life of the 
investment, consistent with the investment’s most current alternatives analysis if 
applicable. 
47) ‘Information Technology Investment Management’ means a decision-making process 
that, in support of agency missions and business needs, provides for analyzing, tracking, 
and evaluating the risks, including information security and privacy risks, and results of 
 
 
32 
 
all major investments made by an agency for information systems.  The process shall 
cover the life of each system and shall include explicit criteria for analyzing the 
projected and actual costs, benefits, and risks, including information security and privacy 
risks, associated with the investments.70   
48) ‘Information technology resources’ means all agency budgetary resources, personnel, 
equipment, facilities, or services that are primarily used in the management, operation, 
acquisition, or other activity related to the life cycle of information technology; 
acquisitions or interagency agreements that include information technology and the 
services or equipment provided by such acquisitions or interagency agreements; but does 
not include grants that establish or support information technology not operated directly 
by the Federal Government. 
49) ‘Initial authorization’ means the initial risk determination and risk acceptance decision 
based on a zero-base review71 of the information system conducted prior to its entering 
the operations or maintenance phase of the system development life cycle.  The zero-
base review includes an assessment of all security and privacy controls (i.e., system-
specific, hybrid, and common controls) contained in an information system security plan 
or in a privacy plan and implemented within an information system or the environment 
in which the system operates. 
50) ‘Interagency agreement’ means, for the purposes of this document, a written agreement 
entered into between two or more Federal agencies that specifies the goods to be 
furnished or tasks to be accomplished by one agency (the servicing agency) in support of 
the other(s) (the requesting agency), including assisted acquisitions as described in OMB 
Memorandum: Improving the Management and Use of Interagency Acquisitions and 
other cases described in FAR Part 17.  
51) ‘Major information system’ means a system that is part of an investment that requires 
special management attention as defined in OMB guidance72 and agency policies, a 
“major automated information system” as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 2445, or a system that 
is part of a major acquisition as defined in the OMB Circular A-11, Capital 
Programming Guide, consisting of information resources.73  
52) ‘Major information technology investment’ means an investment that requires special 
management attention as defined in OMB guidance and agency policies, a “major 
automated information system” as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 2445, or a major acquisition as 
                                                          
 
70 See the Clinger Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. § 11302) for statutory requirements. 
71 A zero-base review of an information system is the first complete security assessment performed in order to 
provide the authorizing official with a comprehensive set of security-related information to facilitate making an 
appropriate risk determination. 
72 For example, an information system requires special management attention because of its importance to an agency 
mission; its high development, operating, or maintenance costs; or its significant role in the administration of agency 
programs, finances, property, or other resources. 
73 All information systems are subject to the requirements of the Federal Information Security Modernization Act 
(44 U.S.C. Chapter 35) whether or not they are designated as a major information system. 
 
 
33 
 
defined in the OMB Circular A-11, Capital Programming Guide, consisting of 
information resources. 
53) ‘National security system’ means any information system (including any 
telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an 
agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency, the function, operation, or use of 
which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national 
security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an 
integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of 
military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine 
administrative and business applications, for example, payroll, finance, logistics, and 
personnel management applications); or is protected at all times by procedures 
established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria 
established by an executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the 
interest of national defense or foreign policy (44 U.S.C. § 3552). 
54) ‘Ongoing authorization’ means the risk determinations and risk acceptance decisions 
subsequent to the initial authorization, taken at agreed-upon and documented frequencies 
in accordance with the agency’s mission or business requirements and agency risk 
tolerance.  Ongoing authorization is a time-driven or event-driven authorization process 
whereby the authorizing official is provided with the necessary and sufficient 
information regarding the security and privacy state of the information system to 
determine whether the mission or business risk of continued system operation is 
acceptable. 
55) ‘Open data’ means publicly available data that are made available consistent with 
relevant privacy, confidentiality, security, and other valid access, use, and dissemination 
restrictions, and are structured in a way that enables the data to be fully discoverable and 
usable by end users.  Generally, open data are consistent with principles, explained in 
OMB guidance, of such data being public, accessible, machine-readable, described, 
reusable, complete, timely, and managed post-release. 
56) ‘Overlay’ means a specification of security or privacy controls, control enhancements, 
supplemental guidance, and other supporting information employed during the tailoring 
process, that is intended to complement (and further refine) security control baselines.  
The overlay specification may be more stringent or less stringent than the original 
security control baseline specification and can be applied to multiple information 
systems. (See “tailoring” definition.)   
57) ‘Personally identifiable information’ means information that can be used to distinguish 
or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information 
that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.  
58) ‘Privacy continuous monitoring’ means maintaining ongoing awareness of privacy risks 
and assessing privacy controls at a frequency sufficient to ensure compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and to manage privacy risks.  
59) ‘Privacy continuous monitoring program’ means an agency-wide program that 
implements the agency’s privacy continuous monitoring strategy and maintains ongoing 
awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that may pose privacy risks; monitors changes to 
 
 
34 
 
information systems and environments of operation that create, collect, use, process, 
store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; and conducts privacy control 
assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all privacy controls selected and 
implemented at an agency across the agency risk management tiers to ensure continued 
compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. 
60) ‘Privacy continuous monitoring strategy’ means a formal document that catalogs the 
available privacy controls implemented at an agency across the agency risk management 
tiers and ensures that the controls are effectively monitored on an ongoing basis by 
assigning an agency-defined assessment frequency to each control that is sufficient to 
ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and to manage privacy risks. 
 
61) ‘Privacy control’ means the administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed 
within an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and 
manage privacy risks. 
62) ‘Privacy control assessment’ means the assessment of privacy controls to determine 
whether the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to 
ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. A 
privacy control assessment is both an assessment and a formal document detailing the 
process and the outcome of the assessment. 
63) ‘Privacy impact assessment’ means an analysis of how information is handled to ensure 
handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements regarding 
privacy; to determine the risks and effects of creating, collecting, using, processing, 
storing, maintaining, disseminating, disclosing, and disposing of information in 
identifiable form in an electronic information system; and to examine and evaluate 
protections and alternate processes for handling information to mitigate potential privacy 
concerns.  A privacy impact assessment is both an analysis and a formal document 
detailing the process and the outcome of the analysis. 
64) ‘Privacy program plan’ means a formal document that provides an overview of an 
agency’s privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy 
program, the resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency 
Official for Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and 
objectives of the privacy program, and the program management controls and common 
controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing 
privacy risks. 
65) ‘Privacy plan’ means a formal document that details the privacy controls selected for an 
information system or environment of operation that are in place or planned for meeting 
applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks, details how the controls 
have been implemented, and describes the methodologies and metrics that will be used 
to assess the controls.74 
66) ‘Program management control’ means, in the context of information security and 
privacy, a control that is generally implemented at the agency level, independent of any 
                                                          
 
74 The privacy plan and the information system security plan may be integrated into one consolidated document. 
 
 
35 
 
particular information system, and essential for managing information security or 
privacy programs. 
67) ‘Provisioned IT Service’ means an information technology service that is owned, 
operated, and provided by an outside vendor or external government organization, and 
consumed by the agency. 
68) ‘Public information’ means any information, regardless of form or format, that an 
agency discloses, disseminates, or makes available to the public (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). 
69) ‘Reauthorization’ means the risk determination and risk acceptance decision that occurs 
after an initial authorization.  In general, reauthorization actions may be time-driven or 
event-driven; however, under ongoing authorization, reauthorization is typically an 
event-driven action initiated by the authorizing official or directed by the Risk Executive 
(function) in response to an event that drives risk above the previously agreed-upon 
agency risk tolerance. 
70) ‘Records’ means all recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, made or 
received by a Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of 
public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its 
legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, 
procedures, operations, or other activities of the United States Government or because of 
the informational value of data in them (44 U.S.C. § 3301). 
71) ‘Records management’ means the planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, 
promoting, and other managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, 
records maintenance and use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and 
proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government and 
effective and economical management of agency operations (44 U.S.C. § 2901(2)). 
72) ‘Resilience’ means the ability to prepare for and adapt to changing conditions and 
withstand and recover rapidly from disruption. Resilience includes the ability to 
withstand and recover from deliberate attacks, accidents, or naturally occurring threats or 
incidents. 
73) ‘Risk’ means a measure of the extent to which an entity is threatened by a potential 
circumstance or event, and typically is a function of: (i) the adverse impact, or 
magnitude of harm, that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and (ii) the 
likelihood of occurrence.75 
74) ‘Risk management’ means the program and supporting processes to manage risk to 
agency operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), agency assets, 
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, and includes: establishing the context 
for risk-related activities; assessing risk; responding to risk once determined; and 
monitoring risk over time. 
75) ‘Risk management strategy’ means the description of how an agency intends to assess 
risk, respond to risk, and monitor risk, making explicit and transparent the risk 
                                                          
 
75 Risk can include both information security and privacy risks. 
 
 
36 
 
perceptions that organizations routinely use in making both investment and operational 
decisions. 
76) ‘Risk response’ means accepting, avoiding, mitigating, sharing, or transferring risk to 
agency operations, agency assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation. 
77) ‘Security category’ means the characterization of information or an information system 
based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of such information or information system would have on agency operations, 
agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
78) ‘Security control’ means the safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an 
information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of the system and its information. 
79) ‘Security control assessment’ means the testing or evaluation of security controls to 
determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as 
intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security 
requirements for an information system or organization. 
80) ‘Security control baseline’ means the set of minimum security controls defined for a 
low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information system. 
81) ‘Senior Agency Official for Privacy’ means the senior official, designated by the head of 
each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation 
of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating 
to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role 
in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy 
proposals. 
82) ‘Senior Agency Official for Records Management’ means the senior official who has 
direct responsibility for ensuring that the agency efficiently and appropriately complies 
with all applicable records management statutes, regulations, NARA policy and OMB 
policy. 
83) ‘Supply chain’ means a linked set of resources and processes between multiple tiers of 
developers that begins with the sourcing of products and services and extends through 
the design, development, manufacturing, processing, handling, and delivery of products 
and services to the acquirer. 
84) ‘Supply chain risk’ means risks that arise from the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability of information or information systems and reflect the potential adverse 
impacts to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), 
organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
85) ‘Supply chain risk management’ means the process of identifying, assessing, and 
mitigating the risks associated with the global and distributed nature of information and 
communications technology product and service supply chains. 
86) ‘System-specific control’ means a security or privacy control for an information system 
that is implemented at the system level and is not inherited by any other information 
system. 
 
 
37 
 
87) ‘Systems security engineering’ means a specialty engineering discipline of systems 
engineering.  It applies scientific, mathematical, engineering, and measurement 
concepts, principles, and methods to deliver, consistent with defined constraints and 
necessary trade-offs, a trustworthy asset protection capability that satisfies stakeholder 
requirements; is seamlessly integrated into the delivered system; and presents residual 
risk that is deemed acceptable and manageable to stakeholders. 
88) ‘Tailoring’ means the process by which security control baselines are modified by 
identifying and designating common controls; applying scoping considerations; selecting 
compensating controls; assigning specific values to agency-defined control parameters; 
supplementing baselines with additional controls or control enhancements; and 
providing additional specification information for control implementation.  The tailoring 
process may also be applied to privacy controls. (See “overlay” definition.) 
89) ‘TechStat’ means a face-to-face, evidence-based accountability review of an IT 
investment that enables the Federal Government to intervene to turn around, halt, or 
terminate IT projects that are failing or are not producing results for the American 
people. 
90)  ‘Trustworthy information system’ means an information system that is believed to be 
capable of operating within defined levels of risk despite the environmental disruptions, 
human errors, structural failures, and purposeful attacks that are expected to occur in its 
environment of operation. 
b. Terms that are not specifically defined in this section are assumed to have standard dictionary 
meanings, or are defined in other OMB policy. 
11. Inquiries 
All questions or inquiries should be addressed to the Office of Management and Budget, 
Washington, D.C. 20503.  Telephone: (202) 395-0379 or (202) 395-3785 or Email: 
A130@omb.eop.gov.
 
 
Appendix I - 1 
 
Appendix I to OMB Circular A-130   
Responsibilities for Protecting and Managing Federal Information Resources 
1. Introduction  
Agencies of the Federal Government depend on the secure acquisition, processing, storage, 
transmission, and disposition of information to carry out their core missions and business 
functions.  This allows diverse information resources ranging from large enterprise information 
systems (or systems of systems) to small mobile computing devices to collect, process, store, 
maintain, transmit, and disseminate this information.  The information relied upon is subject to a 
range of threats that could potentially harm or adversely affect organizational operations (e.g., 
mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, 
or the Nation.  These threats include environmental disruptions, purposeful attacks, structural 
failures, human errors, and other threats that can compromise Federal information resources. 
Personnel at all levels of the Federal Government must understand how to manage information 
security and protect privacy.  
Federal agencies must implement information security programs and privacy programs with the 
flexibility to meet current and future information management needs and the sufficiency to 
comply with Federal requirements and manage risks.  Emerging technologies and services may 
continue to shift the ways in which agencies acquire, develop, manage, and use information and 
technology.  As technologies and services continue to change, so will the threat environment. 
Agency programs must have the capability to identify, respond to, and recover from current 
threats while protecting their information resources and the privacy of the individuals whose 
information they maintain.  The programs must also have the capability to address new and 
emerging threats.  To be effective, information security and privacy considerations must be part 
of the day-to-day operations of agencies.  This can best be accomplished by planning for the 
requisite security and privacy capabilities as an integral part of the agency strategic planning and 
risk management processes, not as a separate activity.  This includes, but is not limited to, the 
integration of Federal information security and privacy requirements (and security and privacy 
controls) into the enterprise architecture, system development life cycle activities, systems 
engineering processes, and acquisition processes. 
To ensure that Federal agencies can successfully carry out their assigned missions and business 
operations in an environment of sophisticated and complex threats, they must deploy systems 
that are both trustworthy and resilient.  To increase the level of trustworthiness and resilience of 
Federal information systems, the systems should employ technologies that can significantly 
increase the built-in protection capability of those systems and make them inherently less 
vulnerable.  This can require a significant investment in appropriate architectures and the 
application of systems engineering concepts and principles in the design of Federal information 
systems. 
As Federal agencies take advantage of emerging information technologies and services to obtain 
more effective mission and operational capabilities, achieve greater efficiencies, and reduce 
costs, they must also apply the principles and practices of risk management, information security, 
and privacy to the acquisition and use of those technologies and services.  While there are certain 
security and privacy requirements and associated controls that are mandatory, agencies are 
 
 
Appendix I - 2 
 
required to employ risk-based approaches and decision making to ensure that security and 
privacy capabilities are sufficient to protect agency assets, operations, and individuals.  Such 
risk-based approaches involve framing, assessing, responding to, and monitoring security and 
privacy risks on an ongoing basis.  Risk-based approaches can also support potential 
performance improvements and cost savings when agencies make decisions about maintaining, 
modernizing, or replacing existing information technologies and services or implementing new 
technologies and services that leverage internal, other government, or private sector innovative 
and market-driven solutions.  These responsibilities extend to the creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of Federal information 
when such information is hosted by non-Federal entities on behalf of the Federal Government.  
Ultimately, agency heads remain responsible and accountable for ensuring that information 
management practices comply with all Federal requirements, that information security and 
privacy programs are appropriately managed, and that Federal information is adequately 
protected commensurate with the risk resulting from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, 
disruption, modification, or destruction of such information. 
2. Purpose 
This Appendix establishes minimum requirements for Federal information security programs, 
assigns Federal agency responsibilities for the security of information and information systems, 
and links agency information security programs and agency management control systems 
established in accordance with OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for 
Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Controls.  This Appendix also establishes 
requirements for Federal agency privacy programs, assigns responsibilities for privacy program 
management, and describes how agencies should take a coordinated approach to implementing 
information security and privacy controls.  Additionally, this Appendix incorporates 
requirements of statute, such as FISMA (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), the E-Government Act of 2002 
(44 U.S.C. Chapters 35 and 36), the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), and the 
Privacy Act of 1974, and responsibilities assigned in executive orders and Presidential directives. 
3. General Requirements 
a. Agencies shall implement an agency-wide risk management process that frames, assesses, 
responds to, and monitors information security and privacy risk on an ongoing basis across 
the three organizational tiers (i.e., organization level, mission or business process level, and 
information system level).76 
b. Agencies shall develop, implement, document, maintain, and oversee agency-wide 
information security and privacy programs including people, processes, and technologies to: 
1) Provide for agency information security and privacy policies, planning, budgeting, 
management, implementation, and oversight; 
                                                          
 
76 NIST SP 800-39, Managing Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View, 
provides additional information on risk management processes and strategies. See also Section 5.b of this Appendix. 
 
 
 
Appendix I - 3 
 
2) Protect information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, 
disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide for their confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability; 
3) Provide adequate security for all information created, collected, processed, stored, 
transmitted, disseminated, or disposed of by or on behalf of the agency, to include 
Federal information residing in contractor information systems and networks; 
4) Cost-effectively manage information security and privacy risks, which includes reducing 
such risks to an acceptable level; 
5) Implement a risk management framework to guide and inform the categorization of 
Federal information and information systems; the selection, implementation, and 
assessment of security and privacy controls; the authorization of information systems and 
common controls; and the continuous monitoring of information systems; 
6) Implement security and privacy controls, and verify that they are operating as intended, 
and continuously monitored and assessed; put procedures in place so that security and 
privacy controls remain effective over time, and that steps are taken to maintain risk at an 
acceptable level within organizational risk tolerance; 
7) Employ systems security engineering principles, concepts, and techniques during the life 
cycle of information systems to facilitate the development, deployment, operation, and 
sustainment of trustworthy and adequately secure systems; 
8) Implement supply chain risk management principles to protect against the insertion of 
counterfeits, unauthorized production, tampering, theft, insertion of malicious software, 
as well as poor manufacturing and development practices throughout the system 
development life cycle; 
9) Implement policies and procedures to ensure that all personnel are held accountable for 
complying with agency-wide information security and privacy requirements and 
policies;  
10) Ensure that, in a timely manner, agency CIOs and SAOPs are made aware of 
information systems and components that cannot be appropriately protected or secured 
and that such systems are given a high priority for upgrade, replacement, or retirement;77 
and 
11) Ensure ongoing collaboration between the senior agency information security officer and 
the SAOP to ensure coordination of security and privacy activities. 
c. Agencies that share PII shall require, as appropriate, other agencies and entities with which 
they share PII to maintain the PII in an information system with a particular NIST FIPS 
Publication 199 confidentiality impact level, as determined by the agency sharing the PII. 
d. Agencies that share PII with other agencies or entities shall impose, where appropriate, 
conditions (including the selection and implementation of particular security and privacy 
controls) that govern the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, 
                                                          
 
77 Until such information systems or components are appropriately dispositioned, agencies are expected to 
immediately implement interim remediation measures such as limiting access or connectivity.  
 
 
Appendix I - 4 
 
dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of the PII through written agreements, including 
contracts, data use agreements, information exchange agreements, and memoranda of 
understanding. 
e. Agencies shall protect Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) and shall apply NIST FIPS 
and NIST (800-series) SPs, as appropriate.  This includes limiting the disclosure of 
proprietary information to that which is legally authorized, and impose appropriate 
conditions on use where a continuing obligation to ensure the confidentiality of the 
information exists. 
f. Agencies shall ensure compliance with all applicable statutory, regulatory, and policy 
requirements and develop and maintain effective information security and privacy programs.  
This includes using privacy impact assessments and other tools to manage privacy risks. 
g. Agencies shall implement policies issued by OMB, as well as requirements issued by the 
Department of Commerce, DHS, GSA, and OPM.  This includes applying the standards and 
guidelines contained in NIST FIPS, NIST (800-series) SPs, and, where appropriate and 
directed by OMB, NISTIRs. 
4. Specific Requirements78 
a. Security Categorization 
Agencies shall: 
1) Identify authorization boundaries for information systems in accordance with NIST SPs 
800-18 and 800-37; and 
2) Categorize information and information systems, in accordance with FIPS Publication 
199 and NIST SP 800-60, considering potential adverse security and privacy impacts to 
organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. 
b. Planning, Budgeting, and Enterprise Architecture 
Agencies shall: 
1) Identify and plan for the resources needed to implement information security and 
privacy programs;  
2) Ensure that information security and privacy are addressed throughout the life cycle of 
each agency information system, and that security and privacy activities and costs are 
identified and included in IT investment capital plans and budgetary requests; 
3) Plan and budget to upgrade, replace, or retire any information systems for which security 
and privacy protections commensurate with risk cannot be effectively implemented; 
                                                          
 
78 The requirements in this section represent those areas deemed to be of fundamental importance to the achievement 
of effective agency information security programs and those areas deemed to require specific emphasis by OMB. 
The security programs developed and executed by agencies need not be limited to the aforementioned areas but can 
employ a comprehensive set of safeguards and countermeasures based on the principles, concepts, and 
methodologies defined NIST standards and guidelines. 
 
 
Appendix I - 5 
 
4) Ensure that investment plans submitted to OMB as part of the budget process meet the 
information security and privacy requirements appropriate for the life cycle stage of the 
investment; and 
5) Incorporate Federal information security and privacy requirements into the agency’s 
enterprise architecture to ensure that risk is addressed and information systems achieve 
the necessary levels of trustworthiness, protection, and resilience. 
c. Plans, Controls, and Assessments 
Agencies shall: 
1) Develop and maintain an information security program plan that provides an overview 
of the organization-wide information security requirements and documents the program 
management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting those 
requirements; 
2) Develop and maintain a privacy program plan that provides an overview of the agency’s 
privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program, the 
resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency Official for 
Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the 
privacy program, the program management controls and common controls in place or 
planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks, and 
any other information determined necessary by the agency’s privacy program; 
3) Employ a system life cycle process that incorporates the principles, concepts, methods, 
and techniques of systems security engineering to ensure the development of trustworthy 
and resilient information systems; 
4) Develop supply chain risk management plans as described in NIST SP 800-161 to ensure 
the integrity, security, resilience, and quality of information systems; 
5) Employ a process to select and implement security controls for information systems and 
the environments in which those systems operate79 that satisfies the minimum 
information security requirements in FIPS Publication 200 and security control baselines 
in NIST SP 800-53, tailored as appropriate;80 
6) Employ a process to select and implement privacy controls for information systems and 
programs that satisfies applicable privacy requirements in OMB guidance, including, but 
not limited to, Appendix I to this Circular and OMB Circular A-108, Federal Agency 
Responsibilities for Review, Reporting, and Publication under the Privacy Act; 
7) Implement information system security using sound systems security engineering 
principles, concepts, methods, practices, and techniques; 
8) Develop and maintain security plans for information systems to document which 
security controls have been selected and how those controls have been implemented;  
                                                          
 
79 The environment of operation includes the physical surroundings in which an information system processes, 
stores, and transmits information.  Agencies should take the environment into account when selecting, 
implementing, documenting, and assessing security controls. 
80 Agencies must conduct tailoring activities in accordance with OMB policy. 
 
 
Appendix I - 6 
 
9) Develop and maintain a privacy plan that details the privacy controls selected for an 
information system that are in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy 
requirements and managing privacy risks, details how the controls have been 
implemented, and describes the methodologies and metrics that will be used to assess the 
controls; 
10) Deploy effective security controls to provide Federal employees and contractors with 
multifactor authentication, digital signature, and encryption capabilities that provide 
assurance of identity and are interoperable Government-wide and accepted across all 
Executive Branch agencies; 
11) Adhere to Government-wide requirements in the deployment and use of identity 
credentials used by employees and contractors accessing Federal facilities;81  
12) Designate common controls in order to provide cost-effective security and privacy 
capabilities that can be inherited by multiple agency information systems or programs;82 
13) Conduct and document assessments of all selected and implemented security and privacy 
controls to determine whether security and privacy controls are implemented correctly, 
operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable requirements 
and to manage security and privacy risks;   
14) Conduct and document security and privacy control assessments prior to the operation of 
an information system, and periodically thereafter, consistent with the frequency defined 
in the agency information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) and privacy 
continuous monitoring (PCM) strategies and the agency risk tolerance; 
15) Use agency plans of action and milestones (POA&Ms), and make available or provide 
access to OMB, DHS, inspectors general, and the U.S. Government Accountability 
Office, upon request, to record and manage the mitigation and remediation of identified 
weaknesses and deficiencies, not associated with accepted risks, in agency information 
systems; and 
16) Obtain approval from the authorizing official for connections from the information 
system, as defined by its authorization boundary, to other information systems based on 
the risk to the agency’s operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the 
Nation. 
                                                          
 
81 NIST SP 800-116, A Recommendation for the Use of PIV Credentials in Physical Access Control Systems 
(PACS), provides additional information on the use of PIV Credentials, the Government-wide standard identity 
credential, in physical access control systems.  Physical access controls systems, which include, for example, 
servers, databases, workstations and network appliances in either shared or isolated networks, are considered 
information systems.  
82 When common controls protect multiple agency information systems of differing impact levels, the controls shall 
be implemented at the highest impact level among the systems.  If such controls cannot be implemented at the 
highest impact level of the information systems, agencies shall factor this situation into their assessments of risk and 
take appropriate risk mitigation actions (e.g., adding security controls, changing assigned values of security control 
parameters, implementing compensating controls, changing certain aspects of mission or business processes, or 
separating the higher impact system into its own domain where it can be afforded appropriate levels of protection). 
 
 
Appendix I - 7 
 
d. Authorization to Operate and Continuous Monitoring 
Agencies shall: 
1) Designate senior Federal officials to formally authorize an information system to operate 
and authorize agency-designated common controls for use;83 
2) Complete an initial authorization to operate for each information system and all agency-
designated common controls based on a determination of, and explicit acceptance of, the 
risk to agency operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, 
and prior to operational status;   
3) Transition information systems and common controls to an ongoing authorization 
process when eligible for such a process and with the formal approval of the respective 
authorizing officials; 
4) Reauthorize information systems and common controls as needed, on a time- or event-
driven basis in accordance with agency risk tolerance; 
5) Develop and maintain an ISCM strategy to address information security risks and 
requirements across the organizational risk management tiers;84  
6) Implement and update, in accordance with organization-defined frequency, the ISCM 
strategy to reflect the effectiveness of deployed controls; significant changes to 
information systems; and adherence to Federal statutes, policies, directives, instructions, 
regulations, standards, and guidelines; 
7) Ensure that all selected and implemented controls are addressed in the ISCM strategy 
and are effectively monitored on an ongoing basis, as determined by the agency’s ISCM 
program;85  
8) Establish and maintain an ISCM program that: 
a) Provides an understanding of agency risk tolerance and helps officials set priorities 
and manage information security risk consistently throughout the agency; 
b) Includes metrics that provide meaningful indications of security status and trend 
analysis at all risk management tiers; 
c) Ensures the continued effectiveness of all security controls selected and implemented 
by monitoring controls with the frequencies specified in the ISCM strategy; 
d) Verifies compliance with information security requirements derived from 
organizational missions or business functions, Federal statutes, directives, 
instructions, regulations, policies, standards and guidelines; 
                                                          
 
83 Common controls are authorized for operation in the same manner as system-specific controls.  
84  NIST SP 800-39, Managing Information Security Risk, defines three risk management tiers for managing 
information security risk within organizations. These include an organization or governance tier, mission or business 
process tier, and information system tier. 
85  For greater efficiency, the ISCM and PCM strategies may be consolidated into a single unified continuous 
monitoring strategy.  Similarly, the ISCM and PCM programs may also be consolidated into a single unified 
continuous monitoring program. 
 
 
Appendix I - 8 
 
e) Is informed by all applicable agency IT assets to help maintain visibility into the 
security of those assets and the protection of PII associated with those assets; 
f) Ensures knowledge and control of changes to information systems that have potential 
to affect security;  
g) Maintains awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that have the potential to affect 
security, including the mitigation of those threats and vulnerabilities;  
9) Develop and maintain a PCM strategy, a formal document that: 
a) Catalogs the available privacy controls implemented at the agency across the agency 
risk management tiers; and  
b) Ensures that the privacy controls are effectively monitored on an ongoing basis by 
assigning an agency-defined assessment frequency to each control that is sufficient 
to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and to manage privacy 
risks; 
10) Establish and maintain an agency-wide PCM program that implements the agency’s 
PCM strategy and: 
a) Conducts privacy control assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all 
privacy controls selected and implemented at the agency across the agency risk 
management tiers to ensure continued compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and manage privacy risks; 
b) Identifies assessment methodologies and metrics to determine whether privacy 
controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure 
compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks; 
c) Maintains ongoing awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that may pose privacy 
risks; and 
d) Monitors changes to information systems and environments of operation that create, 
collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; 
11) Ensure that a robust ISCM program and PCM program are in place before agency 
information systems are eligible for ongoing authorization; and 
12) Leverage available Federal shared services, where practicable and appropriate. 
e. Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Programs 
The SAOP has agency-wide responsibility and accountability for developing, implementing, 
and maintaining an agency-wide privacy program to manage privacy risks, develop and 
evaluate privacy policy, and ensure compliance with all applicable statutes, regulations, and 
policies regarding the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, 
dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of PII by programs and information systems. The 
SAOP shall: 
1) Develop and maintain a privacy program plan that provides an overview of an agency’s 
privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program, the 
resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the SAOP and other privacy 
officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program, and the 
 
 
Appendix I - 9 
 
program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting 
applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks; 
2) Develop and maintain a PCM strategy and PCM program to maintain ongoing awareness 
of privacy risks and assess privacy controls at a frequency sufficient to ensure 
compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks; 
3) Conduct and document the results of privacy control assessments to verify the continued 
effectiveness of all privacy controls selected and implemented at the agency across all 
agency risk management tiers to ensure continued compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and manage privacy risks;  
4) Identify assessment methodologies and metrics to determine whether privacy controls 
are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance 
with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks; 
5) Designate which privacy controls will be treated as program management, common, 
information system-specific, and hybrid privacy controls at the agency; 
6) Review IT capital investment plans and budgetary requests to ensure that privacy 
requirements (and associated privacy controls), as well as any associated costs, are 
explicitly identified and included, with respect to any IT resources that will be used to 
create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; 
7) Review and approve, in accordance with NIST FIPS Publication 199 and NIST SP 800-
60, the categorization of information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, 
maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII;86  
8) Review and approve the privacy plans for agency information systems prior to 
authorization, reauthorization, or ongoing authorization;  
9) Review authorization packages for information systems that create, collect, use, process, 
store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII to ensure compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks, prior to authorizing officials 
making risk determination and acceptance decisions; and 
10) Coordinate with the CIO, the senior agency information security officer, and other 
agency officials in implementation of these requirements. 
f. Incident Detection, Response, and Recovery 
It is essential that agencies react appropriately to incidents after employing a risk-based 
approach to selecting and implementing their security and privacy controls for their 
information and information systems. 
                                                          
 
86 The categorization of information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, 
or dispose of PII will depend on the sensitivity level of the PII, the privacy risks, and the associated risk to agency 
operations, agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  Agencies should generally categorize 
information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII at the 
moderate or high confidentiality impact level. See Appendix II for additional information regarding the sensitivity 
level of PII. 
 
 
Appendix I - 10 
 
Agencies shall:87 
1) Develop and implement incident management policies and procedures, in accordance 
with OMB policies and NIST guidelines that address incident detection, response, and 
recovery.  This includes developing and implementing appropriate activities to identify 
the occurrence of an incident; developing and implementing appropriate activities to take 
action regarding a detected incident; and developing and implementing the appropriate 
activities to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that 
were impaired due to an incident;  
2) Designate sensitive positions and execute commensurate security clearance levels for 
appropriate agency personnel;  
3) Establish clear roles and responsibilities to ensure the oversight and coordination of 
incident response activities and that incidents are documented, reported, investigated, 
and handled;  
4) Periodically test incident response procedures to ensure effectiveness of such 
procedures; 
5) Document lessons learned for incident response and update procedures annually or as 
required by OMB or DHS; 
6) Ensure that processes are in place to verify corrective actions;   
7) Maintain formal incident response capabilities and mechanisms to include notification to 
affected individuals and adequate training and awareness for employees and contractors 
on how to report and respond to incidents; 
8) Implement formal incident management policies to include definitions, detection and 
analysis, containment, internal and external notification and reporting requirements, 
incident reporting methods, post-incident procedures, roles and responsibilities, and 
guidance on how to mitigate impacts to the agency and its respondents following an 
incident; 
9) Report incidents to OMB, DHS, the CIO, the SAOP, their respective inspectors general 
and general counsel, law enforcement, and Congress in accordance with procedures 
issued by OMB; and 
10) Provide reports on incidents as required by FISMA, OMB policy, DHS binding 
operational directives, Federal information security incident center guidelines, NIST 
guidelines, and agency procedures. 
 
 
                                                          
 
87 Pursuant to FISMA (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). 
 
 
Appendix I - 11 
 
g. Contingency Planning88  
Agencies shall: 
1) Develop and test contingency plans89 for information systems that: 
a) Identify essential missions and business functions and associated contingency 
requirements; 
b) Provide recovery objectives, restoration priorities, and metrics; 
c) Address contingency roles and responsibilities; and 
d) Address maintaining essential missions, functions, and services despite a disruption, 
compromise, or failure of information systems. 
2) Provide for the recovery and reconstitution of information systems to a known state after 
a disruption, compromise, or failure. 
h. Awareness and Training 
Agencies shall:  
1) Develop, maintain, and implement mandatory agency-wide information security and 
privacy awareness and training programs for all employees and contractors; 
2) Ensure that the security and privacy awareness and training programs are consistent with 
applicable policies, standards, and guidelines issued by OMB, NIST, and OPM; 
3) Apprise agency employees about available security and privacy resources, such as 
products, techniques, or expertise;  
4) Provide foundational as well as more advanced levels of security and privacy training to 
information system users (including managers, senior executives, and contractors) and 
ensure that measures are in place to test the knowledge level of information system 
users; 
5) Provide role-based security and privacy training to employees and contractors with 
assigned security and privacy roles and responsibilities, including managers, before 
authorizing access to Federal information or information systems or performing assigned 
duties; 
                                                          
 
88 The Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35) requires each agency to 
develop, document, and implement an agency-wide information security program that includes plans and procedures 
to ensure continuity of operations for information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency.  
Plans related to contingency plans for organizational information systems include, for example, Business Continuity 
Plans, Disaster Recovery Plans, Continuity of Operations Plans, Crisis Communications Plans, Critical 
Infrastructure Plans, Cyber Incident Response Plans, Insider Threat Implementation Plan, and Occupant Emergency 
Plans.   
89 Testing of contingency plans must be consistent with the assessment procedures in NIST SP 800-53A, Guide for 
Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems and Organizations.  In addition, Homeland Security 
Presidential Directive 20, National Continuity Directive, requires the establishment and maintenance of an effective 
national continuity capability.  Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National Continuity 
Program and Requirements, provides direction for the further development of continuity plans and programs.   
 
 
Appendix I - 12 
 
6) Establish rules of behavior, including consequences for violating rules of behavior, for 
employees and contractors that have access to Federal information or information 
systems, including those that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, 
disclose, or dispose of PII; and 
7) Ensure that employees and contractors have read and agreed to abide by the rules of 
behavior for the Federal information and information systems for which they require 
access prior to being granted access. 
i. Specific Safeguarding Measures to Reinforce the Protection of Federal Information and 
Information Systems90 
Agencies shall:  
1) Implement a policy of least functionality by only permitting the use of networks, 
systems, applications, and data, as well as programs, functions, ports, protocols, or 
services that are necessary in meeting mission or business needs; 
2) Implement policies of least privilege at multiple layers – network, system, application, 
and data so that users have role-based access to only the information and resources that 
are necessary for a legitimate purpose; 
3) Implement a policy of separation of duties to address the potential for abuse of 
authorized privileges and help to reduce the risk of malicious activity without collusion; 
4) Isolate sensitive or critical information resources (e.g., information systems, system 
components, applications, databases, and information) into separate security domains 
with appropriate levels of protection based on the sensitivity or criticality of those 
resources; 
5) Implement access control policies for information resources that ensure individuals have 
appropriate authorization and need, and that the appropriate level of identity proofing or 
background investigation is conducted prior to granting access; 
6) Protect administrator, user, and system documentation related to the design, 
development, testing, operation, maintenance, and security of the hardware, firmware, 
and software components of information systems; 
7) Continuously monitor, log, and audit the execution of information system functions by 
privileged users (that ordinary users are not authorized to perform) to detect misuse and 
to help reduce the risk from insider threats; 
8) Prohibit the use of unsupported information systems and system components, and ensure 
that systems and components that cannot be appropriately protected or secured are given 
a high priority for upgrade or replacement;91 
                                                          
 
90 NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, provides 
information on additional security safeguarding measures.  
91 Includes hardware, software, or firmware components no longer supported by developers, vendors, or 
manufacturers through the availability of software patches, firmware updates, replacement parts, and maintenance 
contracts.  NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, 
provides additional guidance on unsupported software components. 
 
 
Appendix I - 13 
 
9) Implement and maintain current updates and patches for all software and firmware 
components of information systems;92 
10) For systems that promote public access, ensure that identity proofing, registration, and 
authentication processes provide assurance of identity consistent with security and 
privacy requirements, in accordance with Executive Order 13681,93 OMB policy, and 
NIST standards and guidelines; 
11) Require use of multifactor authentication for employees and contractors in accordance 
with Government-wide identity management standards;94   
12) Develop and implement processes to support use of digital signatures for employees and 
contractors;  
13) Ensure that all public key infrastructure (PKI) certificates used by an agency and issued 
in accordance with Federal PKI policy validate to the Federal PKI trust anchor when 
being used for user signing, encrypting purposes, authentication and authorization;95     
14) Encrypt all FIPS 199 moderate-impact and high-impact information at rest and in transit, 
unless encrypting such information is technically infeasible or would demonstrably 
affect the ability of agencies to carry out their respective missions, functions, or 
operations; and the risk of not encrypting is accepted by the authorizing official and 
approved by the agency CIO, in consultation with the SAOP (as appropriate);96 
15) Implement the current encryption algorithms and validated cryptographic modules in 
accordance with NIST standards and guidelines;  
16) Ensure that only individuals or processes acting on behalf of individuals with legitimate 
need for access have the ability to decrypt sensitive information;  
17) Implement data-level protection and access controls to ensure the security of and access 
to Federal information; and 
                                                          
 
92 Security-relevant software and firmware updates include, for example, patches, service packs, hot fixes, device 
drivers, basic input output system (BIOS), and antivirus signatures. 
93 Executive Order 13681, Improving the Security of Consumer Financial Transactions, October 2014.  
94 Pursuant to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, Policy for a Common Identification Standard for 
Federal Employees and Contractors, NIST FIPS 201 describes the initial Government-wide identity management 
standard for employees and contractors as a smartcard form factor (the PIV card).  With the emergence of a newer 
generation of computing devices and in particular with mobile devices, the use of PIV cards has evolved technically 
to include other form factors that can be deployed directly with mobile devices as specified in NIST SP 800-157. 
The PIV credential associated with this alternative is called a Derived PIV Credential.  Derived PIV Credentials are 
based on the general concept of derived credentials in NIST SP 800-63.  Issuing a Derived PIV credential to PIV 
card holders does not require repeating identity proofing and vetting processes.  The user simply proves possession 
and control of a valid PIV Card to receive a Derived PIV Credential. 
95 The trust anchor refers to the Federal PKI root certificate operated by the Federal PKI Management Authority.  
This root certificate is the trusted source of all Federal PKI certificates. For additional information, refer to 
https://www.idmanagement.gov and Federal PKI policy. 
96 The encryption of organizational information when in transit over a network and when at rest in storage devices 
ensures that such information is persistently protected and promotes a defense-in-depth security strategy. 
 
 
Appendix I - 14 
 
18) Ensure that all Federal systems and services identified in the Domain Name System are 
protected with Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC) and that all systems are 
capable of validating DNSSEC protected information.97 
j. Non-Federal Entities  
Agencies shall: 
1) Ensure that terms and conditions in contracts and other agreements involving the 
creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, 
and disposal of Federal information, incorporate security and privacy requirements and 
are sufficient to enable agencies to meet Federal and agency-specific requirements 
pertaining to the protection of Federal information;98 
2) Provide oversight of information systems used or operated by contractors or other 
entities on behalf of the Federal Government or that collect or maintain Federal 
information on behalf of the Federal Government, to include: 
a) Documenting and implementing policies and procedures for information security and 
privacy oversight, to include ensuring appropriate vetting and access control 
processes for contractors and others with access to information systems containing 
Federal information;  
b) Ensuring that security and privacy controls of such information systems and services 
are effectively implemented and comply with NIST standards and guidelines and 
agency requirements; 
c) Ensuring that these information systems are included in the agency’s inventory of 
information systems; 
d) Ensuring that the interface characteristics, security requirements, and the nature of 
the information communicated is documented for each interface between these 
systems and agency-owned or operated information systems;  
e) Ensuring that procedures are in place for incident response for these information 
systems including timelines for notification of affected individuals and reporting to 
OMB, DHS, and other entities as required in OMB guidance; 
f) Requiring agreements (e.g., memoranda of understanding, interconnection security 
agreements, contracts) for interfaces between these information systems and agency-
owned or operated information systems; and 
3) Consistent with the agency’s authority, ensure that the requirements of the Privacy Act 
apply to a Privacy Act system of records when a contractor operates the system of 
records on behalf of the agency to accomplish an agency function; 
4) Collaborate with non-Federal entities and other agencies as appropriate to ensure that 
security and privacy requirements pertaining to these non-Federal entities, such as State, 
                                                          
 
97 DNSSEC is a critical component of the Internet infrastructure.  DNSSEC enables clients to cryptographically 
verify that each such translation is provided by a server with the authority to do so, and that the translation response 
from the server was not modified before reaching the client.  
98 For additional information and associated requirements pertaining to IT acquisitions, refer to the FAR.   
 
 
Appendix I - 15 
 
local, tribal, and territorial governments, are consistent to the greatest extent possible; 
and  
5) Ensure that terms and conditions of contracts and other agreements include sufficient 
provisions for Federal Government notification and access, as well as cooperation with 
agency personnel and Inspectors General.  
k. Mitigation of Deficiencies and Issuance of Status Reports  
Agencies shall correct deficiencies that are identified through information security and 
privacy assessments, ISCM and PCM programs, or internal or external audits and reviews, to 
include OMB reviews.  OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Controls, provides guidance to determine whether a deficiency in controls is material when 
so judged by the agency head against other agency deficiencies.  Material deficiencies must 
be included in the annual Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) report, and 
remediation tracked and managed through the agency’s POA&M process. Less significant 
deficiencies need not be included in the FMFIA report, but must be tracked and managed 
through the agency’s POA&M process. 
l. Reporting  
Agencies shall provide performance metrics information and FISMA reports in accordance 
with processes established by OMB and DHS pursuant to FISMA.      
m. Independent Evaluations  
Pursuant to FISMA, agencies shall:99 
1) Perform an independent evaluation of the information security programs and practices to 
determine the effectiveness of such programs and practices, as further described in 
statute.100  The evaluation may include an evaluation of their privacy program and 
practices, as appropriate. Each evaluation shall include: 
a) Testing of the effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, and 
practices of a representative subset of the agency’s Federal information systems;101  
b) An assessment of the effectiveness of the information security policies, procedures, 
and practices of the agency; and 
c) Separate presentations, as appropriate, regarding information security relating to 
national security systems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          
 
99 FISMA (44 U.S.C. § 3555). 
100 FISMA (44 U.S.C. § 3555). 
101 Agencies have flexibility in implementing the baseline controls in SP 800-53; however, agencies are required to 
justify, in their security plans or overlays, any tailoring actions.  
 
 
Appendix I - 16 
 
5. Discussion of the Major Provisions in the Appendix  
This section provides additional information regarding the requirements in this appendix.  
a. NIST Standards and Guidelines 
NIST standards and guidelines associate each information system with an impact level.  The 
standards and guidelines also provide a corresponding starting set of baseline security 
controls and tailoring guidance102 to ensure that the set of security controls in the information 
system security plan (approved by the authorizing official) and privacy controls in the 
privacy plan (approved by the SAOP) satisfy the information security, privacy, and mission 
or business protection needs of the agency. 
For non-national security programs and information systems, agencies must apply NIST 
guidelines unless otherwise stated by OMB. FIPS are mandatory.103  There is flexibility 
within NIST's guidelines (specifically in the 800-series) in how agencies apply those 
guidelines.  Unless specified by additional implementing policy by OMB, the concepts and 
principles described in NIST guidelines must be applied.  However, NIST guidelines 
generally allow agencies latitude in their application.  Consequently, the application of NIST 
guidelines by agencies can result in different solutions that are equally acceptable and 
compliant with the guidelines. 
For legacy information systems, agencies are expected to meet the requirements of, and be in 
compliance with, NIST standards and guidelines within one year of their respective 
publication dates unless otherwise directed by OMB.  The one-year compliance date for 
revisions to NIST publications applies only to new or updated material in the publications.  
For information systems under development or for legacy systems undergoing significant 
changes, agencies are expected to meet the requirements of, and be in compliance with, NIST 
standards and guidelines immediately upon deployment of the systems. 
b. Risk Management Strategy 
Managing risk is a complex, multifaceted activity that requires the involvement of the entire 
agency—from senior leaders and executives providing the strategic vision and top-level 
goals and objectives for the agency; to mid-level leaders planning, executing, and managing 
projects; to individuals on the front lines operating the information systems supporting the 
agency’s missions or business functions.  Risk management is a comprehensive process that 
requires agencies to establish the context in which risk-based decisions are made; assess risk; 
respond to risk once determined; and monitor risk on an ongoing basis using effective 
organizational communications and a feedback loop for continuous improvement in the risk-
related activities of agencies.  Risk management is conducted as an agency-wide activity to 
ensure that risk-based decision-making is integrated into every aspect of the agency’s 
planning and operations. 
                                                          
 
102 Agencies must conduct tailoring activities in accordance with OMB policy. 
103 Pursuant to FISMA (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). 
 
 
Appendix I - 17 
 
A key aspect of the risk management process is the development of the risk management 
strategy.  The risk management strategy describes how an agency intends to assess risk, 
respond to risk, and monitor risk—making explicit and transparent the risk perceptions that 
agencies routinely use in making both investment and operational decisions.  Establishing a 
realistic and credible risk management strategy requires that agencies identify their risk 
assumptions, risk constraints, risk tolerance, and priorities and trade-offs.  The risk 
management strategy also includes any strategic-level decisions by senior leaders and 
executives regarding the management of risk to agency operations and assets, individuals, 
other organizations, and the Nation.  The risk management strategy guides and informs the 
use and application of the Risk Management Framework.  
  
c. Risk Management Framework 
The Risk Management Framework, as described in NIST SP 800-37, provides a disciplined 
and structured process that integrates information security and risk management activities 
into the system development life cycle.  The Risk Management Framework requires agencies 
to categorize each information system and the information processed, stored, and transmitted 
by each system based on a mission or business impact analysis.  Agencies select an initial set 
of baseline security controls for the information system based on the security categorization 
and then tailor the security control baseline as needed, based on an organizational assessment 
of risk and local conditions, as described in NIST SP 800-53.  After implementing the 
security controls, agencies assess the controls using appropriate assessment methods as 
described in NIST SP 800-53A to determine whether the controls are implemented correctly, 
operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the 
security requirements for the system.  
The authorization to operate the system is based on a determination of the risk to agency 
operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation resulting from the 
operation and use of the system and the decision by the authorizing official that this risk is 
acceptable.  Subsequent to the authorization decision and as part of an information security 
continuous monitoring strategy and program, agencies monitor the security controls in the 
system on an ongoing basis, as described in NIST SP 800-137.  Monitoring includes, but is 
not limited to, assessing control effectiveness, documenting changes to the system or its 
environment of operation, conducting security impact analyses of the associated changes, and 
reporting the security state of the system to designated agency officials on an ongoing basis. 
An effective implementation of the Risk Management Framework ensures that managing 
information system-related risks is consistent with the agency’s mission or business 
objectives and overall risk management strategy, and risk tolerance established by the senior 
leadership through the risk executive function104 as discussed in NIST SP 800-39.  It also 
ensures that the requisite security and privacy requirements and controls are integrated into 
                                                          
 
104 The risk executive function is an individual or group within an agency that helps to ensure that: (i) risk-related 
considerations for individual information systems, to include the authorization to operate decisions, are viewed from 
an agency-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the agency in carrying out its 
missions and business functions; and (ii) managing information system-related risks is consistent across the agency, 
reflects the agency’s risk tolerance, and is considered along with other agency risks affecting its missions or 
business functions.   
 
 
Appendix I - 18 
 
the agency’s enterprise architecture and system development life cycle processes.  Finally, 
the Risk Management Framework supports consistent, well-informed, and ongoing 
authorization decisions, transparency of risk management information, reciprocity, and 
information sharing. 
 
d. Security Control Baselines 
It is important to achieve adequate security for Federal information and information systems 
and a consistent level of protection for such information and systems Government-wide.  To 
meet this objective, agencies must select an appropriate set of security controls for their 
information systems that satisfies the minimum security requirements set forth in FIPS 
Publication 200.  The security controls must include one of the three security control 
baselines from NIST SP 800-53 that are associated with the designated categorization 
(impact levels) of their information systems.  The security control baselines define the set of 
minimum security controls for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information 
system and provide a starting point for the tailoring process.  Agencies are required to tailor 
the security control baselines to customize their safeguarding measures for specific missions, 
business lines, and operational environments—and to do so in a cost-effective, risk-based 
manner.  Tailoring allows agencies to designate common controls; apply scoping 
considerations; select compensating controls; assign specific values to agency-defined 
control parameters; supplement baselines with additional controls when necessary; and 
provide additional specification information for control implementation.  Agencies must 
include a justification, in their information system security plans or overlays, for any 
tailoring actions that result in changes to the initial security control baselines.  Agencies are 
not permitted to make changes to security control baselines when such changes result in 
control selections that are inconsistent with security requirements set forth in Federal 
statutes, executive orders, regulations, directives, or policies. 
Agencies may also develop overlays for specific types of information or communities of 
interest (e.g., all web-based applications, all health care-related systems) as part of the 
security control selection process.  Overlays provide a specification of security or privacy 
controls, control enhancements, supplemental guidance, and other supporting information as 
part of the tailoring process, that is intended to complement (and further refine) security 
control baselines.  The overlay may be more stringent or less stringent than the original 
security control baseline and can be applied to multiple information systems.  
All selected security controls must be documented in an information system security plan and 
implemented.  Agencies can use the priority code designations associated with each security 
control in NIST SP 800-53 to assist in making sequencing decisions for control 
implementation.  This prioritization helps to ensure that the foundational security controls 
upon which other controls depend are implemented first, thus enabling agencies to deploy 
controls in a more structured and timely manner in accordance with available resources.  
Independent evaluations, when conducted, shall focus on the effectiveness of the security 
controls selected and implemented (as documented in agency information system security 
plans after all tailoring actions have been completed on the security control baselines) and the 
justification for any decisions to change the control baselines. 
 
 
Appendix I - 19 
 
 
e. Security and Privacy Assessments 
Agencies must ensure that periodic testing and evaluation of the effectiveness of information 
security and privacy policies, procedures, and practices are performed with a frequency 
depending on risk, but at least annually.  However, this general requirement to test and 
evaluate the effectiveness of information security and privacy policies, procedures, and 
practices does not imply that agencies must assess every selected and implemented security 
and privacy control at least annually.  Rather, agencies must continuously monitor all 
implemented security and privacy controls (i.e., system-specific, hybrid, and common 
controls) with a frequency determined by the agency in accordance with the ISCM and PCM 
strategies.  These strategies will define the specific security and privacy controls selected for 
assessment during any one-year period (i.e., the annual assessment window) with the 
understanding that all controls may not be formally assessed every year.  Rotational 
assessment of security and privacy controls is consistent with the transition to ongoing 
authorization and assumes the information system has completed an initial authorization 
where all controls were formally assessed for effectiveness.  As the transition to ongoing 
authorization progresses and agency ISCM programs mature, agencies must ensure that 
assessment frequencies are determined in accordance with NIST SP 800-137. 
Security and privacy control assessments shall ensure that security and privacy controls 
selected by agencies are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and effective in 
satisfying security and privacy requirements.  The risk may change over time based on 
changes in the threat, agency missions or business functions, personnel, technology, or 
environments of operation.  Consequently, maintaining a capability for real-time or near real-
time analysis of the threat environment and situational awareness following an incident is 
paramount.  The type, rigor, and frequency of control assessments, which is established by 
the agency’s risk tolerance and risk management strategy, shall be commensurate with the 
level of awareness necessary for effectively determining information security and privacy 
risk.  Technical security tools such as malicious code scanners, vulnerability assessment 
products (which look for known security weaknesses, configuration errors, and the 
installation of the latest patches), and penetration testing can assist in the ongoing assessment 
of information systems. 
f. Authorizing Official  
The authorizing official is a senior agency official or executive with the authority to formally 
assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to 
agency operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  Authorizing 
officials have budgetary oversight for an information system or be responsible for the 
mission or business operations supported by the system.  Through the authorization process, 
authorizing officials are responsible and accountable for the risks associated with information 
system operations.  Because information security is closely related to the privacy protections 
required for PII, authorizing officials are also responsible and accountable for the privacy 
risks that arise from the operation of an information system.  Accordingly, authorizing 
officials must be in management positions with a level of authority commensurate with 
understanding and accepting such information system-related security and privacy risks.  
 
 
Appendix I - 20 
 
Since the SAOP is the senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has overall 
agency-wide responsibility for privacy, agencies must consider input and recommendations 
submitted by the SAOP in the authorization decision.  Additionally, the SAOP has 
responsibility for reviewing the authorization package for information systems that create, 
collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII, to ensure that 
privacy risks are managed prior to system authorization.  In situations where the authorizing 
official and SAOP cannot reach a final resolution regarding the appropriate protection for the 
agency information and information system, the head of the agency must review the 
associated risks and requirements and make a final determination regarding the issuance of 
the authorization to operate.105 
Agencies can choose from several different approaches when planning for and conducting 
authorizations.  These include an authorization with a single authorizing official, an 
authorization with multiple authorizing officials, or leveraging an existing authorization (see 
Section 6j, Joint and Leveraged Authorizations).  Agencies can, at their discretion, include 
the CIO or the SAOP as a co-authorizing official with a senior agency official who has 
budgetary oversight for an information system or is responsible for the mission or line of 
business supported by the system being authorized for operation.  Regardless of the approach 
used, only Federal Government personnel may serve as an authorizing official.   
g. Authorization to Operate 
The authorization to operate an information system and the authorization of agency-
designated common controls granted by senior Federal officials provide an important quality 
control for agencies.  The decision to authorize an information system to operate shall be 
based on a review of the authorization package and includes an assessment of compliance 
with applicable requirements and risk to agency operations and assets, individuals, other 
organizations, and the Nation.  As stated above, the decision to authorize a system, or 
agency-defined common controls, shall be made by the appropriate authorizing official.  
Since the information system security plan and privacy plan establish the security and 
privacy controls selected for implementation, those plans are a critical part of the 
authorization package and shall form the basis for the authorization, supplemented by more 
specific information as needed.  
In the event that there is a change in authorizing officials, the new authorizing official 
reviews the current authorization decision document, authorization package, and any updated 
documents created as a result of the continuous monitoring activities.  If the new authorizing 
official is willing to accept the currently documented risk, then the official signs a new 
authorization decision document, thus formally transferring responsibility and accountability 
for the information system or the common controls and explicitly accepting the risk.  If the 
new authorizing official is not willing to accept the previous authorization results (including 
the identified risk), a reauthorization action may need to be initiated or the new authorizing 
                                                          
 
105 The head of the agency is the highest-level senior official or executive within an agency with the overall 
responsibility to provide information security protections commensurate with the risk and magnitude of harm (i.e., 
impact) to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  
 
 
Appendix I - 21 
 
official may instead establish new terms and conditions for continuing the original 
authorization, but not extend the original authorization termination date. 
 
h. Ongoing Authorization 
Ongoing authorization106 is a process whereby the authorizing official makes risk 
determination and risk acceptance decisions subsequent to the initial authorization, taken at 
agreed-upon and documented frequencies in accordance with the agency’s risk tolerance and 
mission or business requirements.  In order to implement an ongoing authorization process, 
and move from a static, point-in-time authorization process to a dynamic, near real-time 
ongoing authorization process for information systems and controls, two conditions must be 
met by agencies.  First, the information system or common controls must have been granted 
an initial authorization to operate by the designated authorizing official.  Second, ISCM and 
PCM programs must be in place to monitor all implemented security and privacy controls 
with the appropriate degree of rigor107 and at the appropriate frequencies in accordance with 
applicable ISCM and PCM strategies, OMB guidance, and NIST guidelines.  Ongoing 
authorization can either be a time-driven or event-driven process whereby the authorizing 
official is provided with the necessary and sufficient information regarding the near real-time 
state of the information system and inherited common controls to determine whether all 
applicable security and privacy requirements have been satisfied and the mission or business 
risk is acceptable.  Effective ongoing authorization requires robust ISCM and PCM strategies 
and effective operational ISCM and PCM programs.   
Agencies must define and implement a process to designate information systems or common 
controls that have satisfied the two conditions noted in the previous paragraph and are to be 
transitioned to ongoing authorization.  The process includes the means for the authorizing 
official to formally acknowledge that the information system or common controls are being 
managed under an ongoing authorization process and accept the responsibility for ensuring 
that all necessary activities associated with the ongoing authorization process are performed.  
Until a formal approval is obtained from the authorizing official to transition to ongoing 
authorization, information systems (and common controls) remain under a static 
authorization process with specific authorization termination dates enforced by the agency. 
i. Reauthorization 
Reauthorization consists of a review of the information system similar to the review carried 
out during the initial authorization but conducted during the operations or maintenance phase 
of the system development life cycle rather than prior to that phase. In general, 
reauthorization actions may be time-driven or event-driven.  However, under ongoing 
authorization, reauthorization is typically an event-driven action initiated by the authorizing 
official or directed by the Risk Executive (function) in response to an event or significant 
                                                          
 
106 For additional information on Ongoing Authorization and its relationship to initial authorization and 
reauthorization, refer to NIST Supplemental Guidance on Ongoing Authorization: Transitioning to Near Real-Time 
Risk Management, http://csrc.nist.gov/publications. 
107 The term rigor is used in conjunction with security control assessments and monitoring.  It is typically associated 
with the application of assessment methods described in NIST SP 800-53A, and in particular, the attribute of depth 
which addresses the formality and comprehensiveness of the assessment or monitoring activity. 
 
 
Appendix I - 22 
 
change that increases information security or privacy risk above the previously agreed-upon 
agency risk tolerance.  A significant change is defined as a change that is likely to affect the 
security or privacy state of an information system. 
The reauthorization process differs from the initial authorization inasmuch as the authorizing 
official can initiate a complete zero-base review of the information system or common 
controls, or a targeted review based on the type of event or significant change that triggered 
the reauthorization, the assessment of risk related to the event, the risk response of the 
agency, and the agency risk tolerance.  Reauthorization is a separate activity from the 
ongoing authorization process, though security- and privacy-related information from the 
agency’s ISCM and PCM programs may still be leveraged to support reauthorization.  Note 
also that reauthorization actions may necessitate a review of and changes to the ISCM or 
PCM strategy, which may in turn affect ongoing authorization. 
j. Joint and Leveraged Authorizations 
Agencies are encouraged to use joint and leveraged authorizations whenever 
practicable.108  Joint authorizations can be used when multiple agency officials either from 
the same agency or different agencies, have a shared interest in authorizing an information 
system or common controls.  The participating officials are collectively responsible and 
accountable for the system and the common controls and jointly accept the risks that may 
adversely impact agency operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the 
Nation.  Agencies choosing a joint authorization approach should work together on the 
planning and the execution of the Risk Management Framework tasks described in NIST SP 
800-37 and document their agreement and progress in implementing the tasks.  The specific 
terms and conditions of the joint authorization are established by the participating parties in 
the joint authorization including, for example, the process for ongoing determination and 
acceptance of risk.  The joint authorization remains in effect only as long as there is mutual 
agreement among authorizing officials and the authorization meets the requirements 
established by Federal or agency policies. 
Leveraged authorizations can be used when an agency chooses to accept some or all of the 
information in an existing authorization package generated by another agency based on the 
need to use the same information resources (e.g., information system or services provided by 
the system).109  The leveraging agency reviews the owning agency’s authorization package 
as the basis for determining risk to the leveraging agency.  The leveraging agency considers 
risk factors such as the time elapsed since the authorization results were produced, 
differences in environments of operation (if applicable), the impact of the information to be 
processed, stored, or transmitted, and the overall risk tolerance of the leveraging agency.  The 
leveraging agency may determine that additional security measures are needed and negotiate 
with the owning agency to provide such measures.  To the extent that a leveraged 
authorization includes an information system that creates, collects, uses, processes, stores, 
                                                          
 
108 NIST SP 800-37, Guide for Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems, provides 
guidance on joint and leveraged security authorizations. 
109 Agencies using leveraged authorization information from other (owning) agencies shall ensure that such 
information is included as part of their own Risk Management Framework to provide the appropriate context for 
managing risk within the leveraging organizations. 
 
 
Appendix I - 23 
 
maintains, disseminates, discloses, or disposes of PII, leveraging agencies must consult their 
SAOP.  The SAOP may determine that additional measures are required to manage privacy 
risks prior to leveraging the authorization.   
k. Continuous Monitoring 
Agencies must develop ISCM and PCM strategies and implement ISCM and PCM activities 
in accordance with applicable statutes, directives, policies, instructions, regulations, 
standards, and guidelines.  Agencies have the flexibility to develop an overarching ISCM and 
PCM strategy (e.g., at the agency, bureau, or component level) that addresses all information 
systems, or continuous monitoring strategies that address each agency information system 
individually.  The ISCM and PCM strategies must document all available security and 
privacy controls selected and implemented by agencies, including the frequency of and 
degree of rigor associated with the monitoring process.  ISCM and PCM strategies, which 
must be approved by the appropriate agency authorizing official and SAOP, respectively, 
must also include all common controls inherited by agency information systems. 
l. Critical Infrastructure  
Agencies that operate information systems that are part of the critical infrastructure must 
conduct a risk assessment to ensure that security controls for those systems are appropriately 
tailored (including the deployment of additional controls, when necessary), thus providing 
the required level of protection for critical Federal missions and business operations. In 
addition, agencies must ensure that the privacy controls assigned to critical infrastructure 
meet applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.  This includes the 
continuous monitoring of deployed security and privacy controls in information systems 
designated as critical infrastructure to determine the ongoing effectiveness of those controls 
against current threats; improving the effectiveness of those controls, when necessary; 
managing associated changes to the systems and environments of operation; and satisfying 
specific protection and compliance requirements in statutes, executive orders, directives, and 
policies required for critical infrastructure protection. 
m. Encryption 
When the assessed risk indicates the need, agencies must encrypt Federal information at rest 
and in transit unless otherwise protected by alternative physical and logical safeguards 
implemented at multiple layers, including networks, systems, applications, and data. 
Encrypting information at rest and in transit helps to protect the confidentiality and integrity 
of such information by making it less susceptible to unauthorized disclosure or modification.  
Agencies must apply encryption requirements to Federal information categorized as either 
moderate or high impact in accordance with FIPS Publication 199 unless encrypting such 
information is technically unfeasible or would demonstrably affect their ability to carry out 
their respective mission, functions, or operations.  In situations where the use of encryption is 
technically infeasible, for example, due to an aging legacy system, agencies must initiate the 
appropriate system or system component upgrade or replacement actions at the earliest 
opportunity to be able to accommodate such safeguarding technologies.  Authorizing 
officials who choose to operate information systems without the use of required encryption 
technologies must carefully assess the risk in doing so, and they must receive written 
 
 
Appendix I - 24 
 
approval for the exception from the agency CIO, in consultation with the SAOP (as 
appropriate).  Only FIPS-validated cryptography is approved for use in Federal information 
systems covered by this policy. 
n. Digital Signatures 
Digital signatures can mitigate a variety of security vulnerabilities by providing 
authentication and non-repudiation capabilities, and ensuring the integrity of Federal 
information whether such information is used in day-to-day operations or archived for future 
use.  Additionally, digital signatures can help agencies streamline mission or business 
processes and transition manual processes to more automated processes to include, for 
example, online transactions.  Because of the advantages provided by this technology, OMB 
expects agencies to implement digital signature capabilities in accordance with Federal PKI 
policy, and NIST standards and guidelines.  For employees and contractors, agencies must 
require the use of the digital signature capability of Personal Identity Verification (PIV) 
credentials.  For individuals that fall outside the scope of PIV applicability, agencies should 
leverage approved Federal PKI credentials when using digital signatures.  
 
o. Identity Assurance   
Identity assurance is an essential element of an effective information security program.  To 
streamline the process of citizens, businesses, and other partners110 securely accessing 
Government services online requires a risk-appropriate demand of identity assurance.  
Identity assurance, in an online context, is the ability of an agency to determine that a claim 
to a particular identity made by an individual can be trusted to actually be the individual’s 
true identity.111  Citizens, businesses, and other partners that interact with the Federal 
Government need to have and be able to present electronic identity credentials to identify and 
authenticate themselves remotely and securely when accessing Federal information 
resources.  An agency needs to be able to know, to a degree of certainty commensurate with 
the risk determination, that the presented electronic identity credential truly represents the 
individual presenting the credential before a transaction is authorized.112  To transform 
processes for citizens, businesses, and other partners accessing Federal services online, OMB 
expects agencies to use a standards-based federated identity management approach that 
enables security, privacy, ease-of-use, and interoperability among electronic authentication 
systems.113 
  
                                                          
 
110 “Other partners” may include contractors not subject to the NIST FIPS 201 identity standard.  
111 Pursuant to Executive Order 13681, Improving the Security of Consumer Financial Transactions, agencies 
making personal data accessible to citizens through digital applications shall require the use of multiple factors of 
authentication and an effective identity proofing process, as appropriate. 
112 NIST SP 800-63, Electronic Authentication Guidance, provides additional guidance on identity assurance. 
113 The requirements in this paragraph focus on citizens, businesses, and other partners that interact with the Federal 
Government. For Federal employees and contractors, with long-term access to Federal facilities and information 
systems, agencies are required to follow Personal Identity Verification requirements in accordance with OMB policy 
and NIST standards and guidelines. 
 
 
Appendix I - 25 
 
p. Unsupported Information System Components  
Unsupported information system components (e.g., when developers or vendors are no 
longer providing critical software patches) provide a substantial opportunity for adversaries 
to exploit weaknesses discovered in the currently installed components.  Prohibit the use of 
unsupported information systems and system components, and ensure that systems and 
components that cannot be appropriately protected or secured are given a high priority for 
upgrade or replacement.  Exceptions to replacing unsupported system components may 
include, for example, systems that provide critical mission or business capability where 
newer technologies are not available or where the systems are so isolated that installing 
replacement components is not an option.  For such systems, agencies can establish in-house 
support, for example, by developing customized patches for critical software components or 
securing the services of external providers who through contractual relationships, provide 
ongoing support for the designated unsupported components.  Such contractual relationships 
can include, for example, open source software value-added vendors. 
q. Cybersecurity Framework  
The Cybersecurity Framework was developed by NIST in response to Executive Order 
13636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity.  The Framework describes five core 
cybersecurity functions (i.e., Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover) that may be 
helpful in raising awareness and facilitating communication among agency stakeholders, 
including executive leadership.  The Cybersecurity Framework may also be helpful in 
improving communications across organizations, allowing cybersecurity expectations to be 
shared with business partners, suppliers, and among sectors.  The Framework is not intended 
to duplicate the current information security and risk management practices in place within 
the Federal Government.  However, in the course of managing information security risk 
using the established NIST Risk Management Framework and associated security standards 
and guidelines required by FISMA, agencies can leverage the Cybersecurity Framework to 
complement their current information security programs.  NIST is responsible for providing 
guidance on how agencies can use the Cybersecurity Framework and in particular, how the 
two frameworks can work together to help agencies develop, implement, and continuously 
improve their information security programs. 
r. FISMA Applicability to Non-Federal Entities  
FISMA describes Federal agency security responsibilities as including “information 
collected or maintained by or on behalf of an agency” and “information systems used or 
operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organization on behalf of 
an agency.”  FISMA requires each agency to provide information security for the 
information and “information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency, 
including those provided or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source.”  This 
includes services that are either fully or partially provided, including agency-hosted, 
outsourced, and cloud-based solutions.  
Additionally, because FISMA applies to Federal information and information systems, in 
certain circumstances, its requirements also apply to a specific class of IT that the Clinger-
Cohen Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. § 11101(6)) did not include, i.e., “equipment that is acquired 
 
 
Appendix I - 26 
 
by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract.”  Therefore, when Federal 
information is used within incidentally acquired equipment, the agency continues to be 
responsible and accountable for ensuring that FISMA requirements are met for such 
information. 
s. Controlled Unclassified Information  
The Controlled Unclassified Information program, established by Executive Order 13556, is 
a system that standardizes and simplifies the way the agencies handle unclassified 
information that requires safeguarding or dissemination controls, pursuant to and consistent 
with applicable law, regulations, and Government-wide policies.  The program emphasizes 
the openness and uniformity of Government-wide practices.  Its purpose is to address 
inefficient and confusing processes that have historically led to inconsistent marking and 
safeguarding as well as restrictive dissemination policies. 
 
6. Other Requirements 
Agencies must adhere to all other applicable information requirements such as privacy 
requirements in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, and its implementing OMB guidance; 
confidentiality protection requirements in accordance with the Confidentiality Information 
Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act of 2002 (CIPSEA) and its implementing OMB 
guidance; applicable requirements of statutes, and regulations pertaining to management of 
Federal records; and other relevant statutes, executive orders, Presidential directives, and 
policies. 
 
7. References114 
a. The following references are used within this policy: 
1) Executive Order 13556, Controlled Unclassified Information, November 2010. 
2) Executive Order 13636, Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, February 2013. 
3) Executive Order 13681, Improving the Security of Consumer Financial Transactions, 
October 2014. 
4) Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, Policy for a Common Identification 
Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors, August 2004. 
5) Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20 (National Security Presidential Directive 
51), National Continuity Policy, May 2007. 
6) Federal Continuity Directive 1 (FCD 1), Federal Executive Branch National Continuity 
Program and Requirements, February 2008. 
7) National Communications System (NCS) Directive 3-10, Minimum Requirements for 
Continuity Communications Capabilities, July 2007. 
                                                          
 
114 Statutes, executive orders, and Presidential directives relevant to this appendix are listed in the Authorities 
section of the main body. Additionally, OMB policy documents can be located at 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars_default and https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda_default. 
 
 
Appendix I - 27 
 
8) National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publication 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal 
Information and Information Systems. 
9) National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publication 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information 
and Information Systems. 
10) National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publication 201, Personal Identity Verification of Federal Employees and 
Contractors.  
11) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-18, Guide for 
Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems. 
12) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-30, Guide for 
Conducting Risk Assessments. 
13) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-37, Guide for 
Applying the Risk Management Framework to Federal Information Systems: A Security 
Life Cycle Approach. 
14) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-39, Managing 
Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View. 
15) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-47, Security 
Guide for Interconnecting Information Technology Systems. 
16) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-53, Security and 
Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. 
17) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-53A, Guide for 
Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information Systems and Organizations: 
Building Effective Security Assessment Plans. 
18) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-59, Guideline 
for Identifying an Information System as a National Security System. 
19) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-60, Guide for 
Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories. 
20) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-63, Electronic 
Authentication Guideline. 
21) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-73, Interfaces 
for Personal Identity Verification. 
22) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-76, Biometric 
Specifications for Personal Identity Verification. 
23) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-78, 
Cryptographic Algorithms and Key Sizes for Personal Identity Verification. 
 
 
Appendix I - 28 
 
24) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-79, Guidelines 
for the Authorization of Personal Identity Verification Card Issuers (PCI) and Derived 
PIV Credential Issuers (DPCI). 
25) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-116, Guidelines 
for the Use of PIV Credentials in Physical Access Control Systems (PACS). 
26) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-122, Guide to 
Protecting the Confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information (PII). 
27) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-137, 
Information Security Continuous Monitoring for Federal Information Systems and 
Organizations. 
28) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-157, Guidelines 
for Derived Personal Identity Verification Credentials. 
29) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-161, Supply 
Chain Risk Management Practices for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. 
30) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-162, Guide to 
Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC) Definition and Considerations. 
31) National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, Protecting 
Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Information Systems and 
Organizations. 
32) National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical 
Infrastructure Cybersecurity.  
33) National Institute of Standards and Technology Supplemental Guidance on Ongoing 
Authorization: Transitioning to Near Real-Time Risk Management. 
b. References in this section without specific publication dates or revision numbers refer to the 
most recent updates to those publications. 
 
 
Appendix II - 1 
 
Appendix II to OMB Circular A-130 
Responsibilities for Managing Personally Identifiable Information 
1. Purpose 
This Appendix outlines some of the general responsibilities for Federal agencies managing 
information resources that involve personally identifiable information (PII) and summarizes the 
key privacy requirements included in other sections of this Circular.  The requirements included 
in this Appendix apply to PII in any form or medium, including paper and electronic media.  
Although all of the requirements referenced in this Appendix concern the management of PII, 
some of the requirements are not solely the responsibility of agencies’ privacy programs. The 
inclusion of shared requirements in this Appendix is not intended to suggest that agencies’ 
privacy programs are solely or primarily responsible for meeting such requirements; however, 
agencies’ privacy programs shall play a key role in meeting requirements that involve PII.  This 
Appendix does not provide a comprehensive account of all the statutory and policy requirements 
associated with managing PII and protecting privacy.  Agencies shall consult law, regulation, and 
policy, including OMB guidance, to understand all applicable requirements. 
The main body of this Circular establishes general policies for Federal agencies managing 
information resources.  Appendix I to this Circular establishes requirements for information 
security and privacy programs and provides guidance on how agencies should take a coordinated 
approach when managing Federal information resources.  This Appendix and Appendix I are 
companion documents; it is important to review the appendices together in order to understand 
the coordination between privacy and security.  As noted in the citations, all of the requirements 
summarized in the tables in this Appendix come from the main body or Appendix I to this 
Circular. 
Previous versions of Circular A-130 included information about the reporting and publication 
requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974 (“Privacy Act”) and additional OMB guidance.  This 
information is being revised and will be reissued in OMB Circular A-108.115  This Appendix 
does not extend or interpret the Privacy Act, including agency requirements under the Privacy 
Act. 
2. Introduction 
The Federal Government necessarily creates, collects, uses, processes, stores, maintains, 
disseminates, discloses, and disposes of PII to carry out missions mandated by Federal statute.  
The term PII, as defined in this Circular, refers to information that can be used to distinguish or 
trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is 
linked or linkable to a specific individual.  Because there are many different types of information 
that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, the term PII is necessarily broad.  
To determine whether information is PII, the agency shall perform an assessment of the specific 
risk that an individual can be identified using the information with other information that is 
linked or linkable to the individual.  In performing this assessment, it is important to recognize 
                                                          
 
115 Agencies shall continue to apply the requirements in Appendix I of the 2000 version of Circular A-130 regarding 
review, reporting, and publication pertaining to the Privacy Act until OMB issues a revised version of those 
requirements in OMB Circular A-108. 
 
 
Appendix II - 2 
 
that information that is not PII can become PII whenever additional information becomes 
available – in any medium and from any source – that would make it possible to identify an 
individual. 
Once the agency determines that an information system contains PII, the agency shall then 
consider the privacy risks and the associated risk to agency operations, agency assets, 
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  When considering privacy risks, the agency 
shall consider the risks to an individual or individuals associated with the agency’s creation, 
collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of their 
PII.  In particular, the agency shall evaluate the sensitivity of each individual data element that is 
PII, as well as all of the data elements together.  The sensitivity level of the PII will depend on 
the context, including the purpose for which the PII is created, collected, used, processed, stored, 
maintained, disseminated, disclosed, or disposed.  For example, the sensitivity level of a list of 
individuals’ names may depend on the source of the information, the other information 
associated with the list, the intended use of the information, the ways in which the information 
will be processed and shared, and the ability to access the information.  In addition, when 
determining the privacy and associated risks, the agency shall also consider the volume of PII.  A 
higher volume of PII about a single individual or multiple individuals may pose increased 
privacy or associated risks. 
 
3. Fair Information Practice Principles 
The Fair Information Practice Principles (FIPPs) are a collection of widely accepted principles 
that agencies should use when evaluating information systems, processes, programs, and 
activities that affect individual privacy.  The FIPPs are not OMB requirements; rather, they are 
principles that should be applied by each agency according to the agency’s particular mission 
and privacy program requirements.   
Rooted in a 1973 Federal Government report from the Department of Health, Education, and 
Welfare Advisory Committee, “Records, Computers and the Rights of Citizens,” the FIPPs have 
informed Federal statute and the laws of many U.S. states and foreign nations, and have been 
incorporated in the policies of many organizations around the world.  The precise expression of 
the FIPPs has varied over time and in different contexts.  However, the FIPPs retain a consistent 
set of core principles that are broadly relevant to agencies’ information management practices.  
For purposes of this Circular, the FIPPs are as follows: 
a. Access and Amendment.  Agencies should provide individuals with appropriate access to PII 
and appropriate opportunity to correct or amend PII.116   
b. Accountability.  Agencies should be accountable for complying with these principles and 
applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document 
compliance.  Agencies should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to 
                                                          
 
116 The Access and Amendment principle is included as part of the “Individual Participation” privacy control family 
in NIST SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems.  OMB is including Access and 
Amendment as a stand-alone principle in this Circular to emphasize the importance of allowing individuals to access 
and amend their information when appropriate. 
 
 
Appendix II - 3 
 
PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all 
employees and contractors who have access to PII. 
c. Authority.  Agencies should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or 
disclose PII if they have authority to do so, and should identify this authority in the 
appropriate notice.117   
d. Minimization.  Agencies should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, 
disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally 
authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish 
the purpose.118  
e. Quality and Integrity.  Agencies should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, 
disseminate, or disclose PII with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is 
reasonably necessary to ensure fairness to the individual. 
f. Individual Participation.  Agencies should involve the individual in the process of using PII 
and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. Agencies should also 
establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and 
inquiries.  
g. Purpose Specification and Use Limitation.  Agencies should provide notice of the specific 
purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, 
or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the 
purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized. 
h. Security.  Agencies should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to 
protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its 
unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure. 
i. Transparency.  Agencies should be transparent about information policies and practices with 
respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, 
use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII.119 
4. Senior Agency Official for Privacy 
Agencies are required to designate a Senior Agency Official for Privacy (SAOP) who has 
agency-wide responsibility and accountability for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and managing privacy risks.  The SAOP shall have a central policy-making role 
and shall ensure that the agency considers the privacy impact of all agency actions and policies 
that involve PII.  The SAOP’s review of privacy risks should begin at the earliest planning and 
                                                          
 
117 The Authority principle is included as part of the “Purpose Specification” privacy control family in NIST SP 800-
53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems.  OMB is including Authority as a stand-alone 
principle in this Circular to emphasize the importance of identifying a specific authority for creating, collecting, 
using, processing, storing, maintaining, disseminating, or disclosing PII. 
118 In some versions of the FIPPs, the “minimization” principle is referred to under a different name, such as 
“collection limitation.” 
119 In some versions of the FIPPs, the “transparency” principle is referred to under a different name, such as 
“openness.”   
 
 
Appendix II - 4 
 
development stages of agency actions and policies that involve PII, and should continue 
throughout the life cycle of the information.  
The SAOP shall ensure that the agency complies with applicable privacy requirements in statute, 
regulation, and policy.   
 
5. Agency Privacy Program 
In order to manage Federal information resources that involve PII, agencies shall develop, 
implement, document, maintain, and oversee agency-wide privacy programs that include people, 
processes, and technologies.  Among other things, where PII is involved, agencies’ privacy 
programs shall play a key role in information security, records management, strategic planning, 
budget and acquisition, contractors and third parties, workforce, training, incident response, and 
implementing the Risk Management Framework.  This Appendix does not provide a 
comprehensive account of all the statutory and policy requirements associated with managing PII 
and protecting privacy.  Agencies shall consult law, regulation, and policy, including OMB 
guidance, to understand all applicable requirements. 
Agencies’ privacy programs are led by the SAOP and are responsible for ensuring compliance 
with applicable privacy requirements, developing and evaluating privacy policy, and managing 
privacy risks.  At the discretion of the SAOP and consistent with applicable law, other qualified 
agency personnel may perform particular privacy functions that are assigned to the SAOP.  
Many of the requirements summarized in this Appendix are shared requirements and are not 
solely the responsibility of agencies’ privacy programs.  The inclusion of shared requirements in 
this Appendix is intended to convey that agencies’ privacy programs shall be responsible to the 
extent that the requirements pertain to the management of PII. 
a.   General Requirements 
Agencies shall have comprehensive privacy programs that ensure compliance with applicable 
privacy requirements, develop and evaluate privacy policy, and manage privacy risks.  The 
following table summarizes many of the general privacy requirements that are set forth in this 
Circular.  While some of the requirements summarized in the table are not exclusively privacy 
requirements, they may still require the involvement of agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Establish and maintain a 
comprehensive privacy 
program. 
Agencies shall establish and maintain a comprehensive 
privacy program that ensures compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements, develops and 
evaluates privacy policy, and manages privacy risks.   
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(a); 
Appendix I §§ 3(b), 3(f), 
4(e). 
Ensure compliance with 
privacy requirements 
and manage privacy 
risks. 
Agencies shall ensure compliance with all applicable 
statutory, regulatory, and policy requirements and use 
privacy impact assessments and other tools to manage 
privacy risks.  Agencies shall cost-effectively manage 
privacy risks and reduce such risks to an acceptable 
level. 
Main Body §§ 4(g), 
5(e)(1)(d), 5(f)(1)(a); 
Appendix I § 3(a), 3(b)(4), 
3(f), 3(g). 
 
 
Appendix II - 5 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Monitor Federal law, 
regulation, and policy 
for changes.  
Agencies shall monitor Federal law, regulation, and 
policy for changes that affect privacy. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(c). 
Develop and maintain a 
privacy program plan.  
Agencies shall develop and maintain a privacy program 
plan that provides an overview of the agency’s privacy 
program, including a description of the structure of the 
privacy program, the resources dedicated to the privacy 
program, the role of the SAOP and other privacy 
officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of 
the privacy program, the program management controls 
and common controls in place or planned for meeting 
applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy 
risks, and any other information determined necessary 
by the agency’s privacy program. 
Appendix I § 4(c)(2), 
4(e)(1). 
Designate a Senior 
Agency Official for 
Privacy. 
The head of each agency shall designate an SAOP who 
has agency-wide responsibility and accountability for 
developing, implementing, and maintaining an agency-
wide privacy program to ensure compliance with all 
applicable statues, regulations, and policies regarding 
the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, 
maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of 
PII by programs and information systems, developing 
and evaluating privacy policy, and managing privacy 
risks at the agency. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(b); 
Appendix I § 4(e). 
Ensure coordination 
between privacy and 
other programs. 
Agencies shall ensure that the SAOP and the agency’s 
privacy personnel closely coordinate with the agency 
CIO, senior agency information security officer, and 
other agency offices and officials, as appropriate. 
Main Body §§ 4(h), 
5(f)(1)(k); Appendix I §§ 
3(b)(11), 4(e)(10). 
Ensure that privacy is 
addressed throughout the 
life cycle of each 
information system. 
Agencies shall ensure that privacy is addressed 
throughout the life cycle of each agency information 
system.  
Main Body §§ 4(g), 
5(a)(1)(c)(i), 5(b)(4); 
Appendix I § 4(b)(2). 
Incorporate privacy 
requirements into 
enterprise architecture. 
Agencies shall incorporate Federal privacy 
requirements into the agency’s enterprise architecture 
to ensure that risk is addressed and information 
systems achieve the necessary levels of 
trustworthiness, protection, and resilience. 
Appendix I § 4(b)(5). 
Comply with the Privacy 
Act. 
Agencies shall comply with the requirements of the 
Privacy Act and ensure that Privacy Act system of 
records notices are published, revised, and rescinded, 
as required. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(g). 
Conduct privacy impact 
assessments.  
Agencies shall conduct privacy impact assessments in 
accordance with the E-Government Act and make the 
privacy impact assessments available to the public in 
accordance with OMB policy. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(i). 
 
 
Appendix II - 6 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Balance the need for 
information collection 
with the privacy risks. 
Agencies shall ensure that the design of information 
collections is consistent with the intended use of the 
information, and the need for new information is 
balanced against any privacy risks. 
Main Body § 4(i). 
Comply with 
requirements for 
disclosure and 
dissemination. 
Agencies shall comply with all applicable privacy 
statutes and policies governing the disclosure or 
dissemination of information and comply with any 
other valid access, use, and dissemination restrictions. 
Main Body § 5(e)(1)(b)-
(d), 5(e)(7)(h). 
Maintain and post 
privacy policies on 
websites, mobile 
applications, and other 
digital services. 
Agencies shall maintain and post privacy policies on 
all agency websites, mobile applications, and other 
digital services, in accordance with the E-Government 
Act and OMB policy. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(j). 
Provide performance 
metrics and reports. 
Agencies shall provide performance metrics 
information and reports in accordance with processes 
established by OMB and DHS pursuant to FISMA.    
Appendix I § 4(1). 
 
b. Considerations for Managing PII 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall maintain an inventory of PII, regularly review all PII 
maintained by the agency, and comply with applicable requirements regarding the creation, 
collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of PII.  
In addition, agencies’ privacy programs shall impose, where appropriate, conditions on other 
agencies and entities to which PII is being disclosed that govern the creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of the PII.  The 
following table summarizes the privacy requirements in this Circular that pertain to the general 
management of PII.  While some requirements summarized in the table are not exclusively 
privacy requirements, they may still require the involvement of agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Maintain an inventory of 
agency information 
systems that involve PII 
and regularly review and 
reduce PII to the 
minimum necessary.  
Agencies shall maintain an inventory of the agency’s 
information systems that create, collect, use, process, 
store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII 
to allow the agency to regularly review its PII and 
ensure, to the extent reasonably practicable, that such 
PII is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete; and to 
allow the agency to reduce its PII to the minimum 
necessary for the proper performance of authorized 
agency functions. 
Main Body § 5(a)(1)(a)(ii), 
5(f)(1)(e). 
Eliminate unnecessary 
collection, maintenance, 
and use of Social 
Security numbers. 
Agencies shall take steps to eliminate unnecessary 
collection, maintenance, and use of Social Security 
numbers, and explore alternatives to the use of Social 
Security numbers as a personal identifier. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(f). 
 
 
Appendix II - 7 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Follow approved records 
retention schedules for 
records with PII. 
Agencies shall ensure that all records with PII are 
maintained in accordance with applicable records 
retention or disposition schedules approved by NARA.  
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(h). 
Limit the creation, 
collection, use, 
processing, storage, 
maintenance, 
dissemination, and 
disclosure of PII. 
Agencies shall limit the creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and 
disclosure of PII to that which is legally authorized, 
relevant, and reasonably deemed necessary for the 
proper performance of agency functions. 
Main Body § 5(f)(1)(d). 
Require entities with 
which PII is shared to 
maintain the PII in an 
information system with 
a particular 
categorization level. 
Agencies that share PII shall require, as appropriate, 
other agencies and entities with which they share PII to 
maintain the PII in an information system with a 
particular NIST FIPS Publication 199 confidentiality 
impact level, as determined by the agency sharing the 
PII. 
Appendix I § 3(c). 
Impose conditions on the 
creation, collection, use, 
processing, storage, 
maintenance, 
dissemination, 
disclosure, and disposal 
of shared PII through 
agreements. 
Agencies that share PII with other agencies or entities 
shall impose, where appropriate, conditions (including 
the selection and implementation of particular security 
and privacy controls) that govern the creation, 
collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, 
dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of the PII 
through written agreements, including contracts, data 
use agreements, information exchange agreements, and 
memoranda of understanding. 
Appendix I § 3(d).  
 
c. Budget and Acquisition 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall have the resources needed to manage Federal information 
resources that involve PII.  This will require privacy programs to play a key role in the 
development of the agencies’ budget requests, as well as any decisions to acquire or develop 
information system technologies and services.  The following table summarizes the privacy 
requirements in this Circular that pertain to budget and acquisition activities.  While some of the 
requirements summarized in the table are not exclusively privacy requirements, they may still 
require the involvement of agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Identify and plan for 
resources needed for 
privacy program. 
Agencies shall identify and plan for the resources 
needed to implement privacy programs. 
Appendix I § 4(b)(1). 
Include privacy 
requirements in IT 
solicitations. 
Agencies shall include privacy requirements in 
solicitations for IT and services. 
Main body § 5(d)(1)(j). 
 
 
Appendix II - 8 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Establish a process to 
evaluate privacy risks 
for IT investments. 
Agencies shall consider privacy when analyzing IT 
investments, and establish a decision-making process 
that shall cover the life of each information system and 
include explicit criteria for analyzing the projected and 
actual costs, benefits, and risks, including privacy risks, 
associated with the IT investments.  
Main Body § 5(d)(3), 
5(d)(4)(b). 
 
Ensure that privacy risks 
are addressed and costs 
are included in IT capital 
investment plans and 
budgetary requests. 
The SAOP shall review IT capital investment plans and 
budgetary requests to ensure that privacy requirements 
(and associated privacy controls), as well as any 
associated costs, are explicitly identified and included, 
with respect to any IT resources that will be used to 
create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, 
disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII.  Agencies shall 
ensure that agency budget justification materials, in 
their initial budget submission to OMB, include a 
statement affirming that the SAOP has conducted the 
necessary review. 
Main Body § 5(a)(3)(e)(ii), 
5(d)(3)(e); Appendix I § 
4(b)(2), 4(e)(6). 
Ensure that investment 
plans meet the privacy 
requirements appropriate 
for the life cycle stage of 
the investment. 
Agencies shall ensure that investment plans submitted 
to OMB as part of the budget process meet the privacy 
requirements appropriate for the life cycle stage of the 
investment. 
Appendix I § 4(b)(4). 
Upgrade, replace, or 
retire unprotected 
information systems. 
Agencies shall plan and budget to upgrade, replace, or 
retire any information systems for which protections 
commensurate with risk cannot be effectively 
implemented. 
Appendix I § 4(b)(3). 
Ensure that SAOPs are 
made aware of 
information systems and 
components that cannot 
be protected. 
Agencies shall ensure that, in a timely manner, SAOPs 
are made aware of information systems and 
components that cannot be appropriately protected or 
secured, and that such systems are given a high priority 
for upgrade, replacement, or retirement. 
Main Body § 5(a)(1)(c)(ii); 
Appendix I § 3(b)(10). 
 
d.  Contractors and Third Parties 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall ensure that entities that create, collect, use, process, store, 
maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of information on behalf of a Federal agency or that 
operate or use information systems on behalf of a Federal agency, comply with the privacy 
requirements in law and OMB policies.  The following table summarizes the privacy 
requirements in this Circular that pertain to contractors and third parties.  While some of the 
requirements summarized in the table are not exclusively privacy requirements, they may still 
require the involvement of agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
 
 
Appendix II - 9 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Ensure that contracts and 
other agreements 
incorporate privacy 
requirements.  
Agencies shall ensure that terms and conditions in 
contracts, and other agreements involving the creation, 
collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, 
dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of Federal 
information, incorporate privacy requirements and are 
sufficient to enable agencies to meet Federal and 
agency-specific requirements pertaining to the 
protection of Federal information.  
Main Body § 5(a)(1)(b)(ii); 
Appendix I § 4(j)(1). 
Maintain agency-wide 
privacy training for all 
employees and 
contractors. 
Agencies shall develop, maintain, and implement 
mandatory agency-wide privacy awareness and training 
programs for all employees and contractors. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(1)-(2), 
(4)-(7). 
Ensure that the Privacy 
Act applies to 
contractors where 
required.  
Agencies shall, consistent with the agency’s authority, 
ensure that the requirements of the Privacy Act apply 
to a Privacy Act system of records when a contractor 
operates the system of records on behalf of the agency 
to accomplish an agency function.  
Appendix I § 4(j)(3). 
Oversee information 
systems operated by 
contractors.  
Agencies shall provide oversight of information 
systems used or operated by contractors or other 
entities on behalf of the Federal Government or that 
collect or maintain Federal information on behalf of the 
Federal Government. 
Appendix I § 4(j)(2). 
Implement policies on 
privacy oversight of 
contractors. 
Agencies shall document and implement policies and 
procedures for privacy oversight of contractors and 
other entities, to include ensuring appropriate vetting 
and access control processes for contractors and others 
with access to information systems containing Federal 
information. 
Appendix I § 4(j)(2)(a). 
Ensure implementation 
of privacy controls for 
contractor information 
systems. 
Agencies shall ensure that privacy controls of 
information systems and services used or operated by 
contractors or other entities on behalf of the agency are 
effectively implemented and comply with NIST 
standards and guidelines and agency requirements. 
Appendix I § 4(j)(2)(b). 
Maintain an inventory of 
contractor information 
systems. 
Agencies shall ensure that information systems used or 
operated by contractors or other entities on behalf of 
the agency are included in the agency’s inventory of 
information systems. 
Appendix I § 4(j)(2)(c). 
Ensure that incident 
response procedures are 
in place for contractor 
information systems. 
Agencies shall ensure that procedures are in place for 
incident response for information systems used or 
operated by contractors or other entities on behalf of 
the agency, including timelines for notification of 
affected individuals and reporting to OMB, DHS, and 
other entities as required in OMB guidance. 
Appendix I § 4(j)(2)(e). 
 
e. Privacy Impact Assessments 
As a general matter, an agency shall conduct a privacy impact assessment (PIA) under section 
208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002, absent an applicable exception under that section, 
 
 
Appendix II - 10 
 
when the agency develops, procures, or uses information technology to create, collect, use, 
process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII.120  A PIA is an analysis of how 
PII is handled to ensure that handling conforms to applicable privacy requirements, determine 
the privacy risks associated with an information system or activity, and evaluate ways to mitigate 
privacy risks.  A PIA is both an analysis and a formal document detailing the process and the 
outcome of the analysis.  
A PIA is one of the most valuable tools Federal agencies use to ensure compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.  Agencies shall conduct and draft a 
PIA with sufficient clarity and specificity to demonstrate that the agency fully considered 
privacy and incorporated appropriate privacy protections from the earliest stages of the agency 
activity and throughout the information life cycle.  In order to conduct a meaningful PIA, the 
agency’s SAOP shall work closely with the program managers, information system owners, 
information technology experts, security officials, counsel, and other relevant agency officials.  
Moreover, a PIA is not a time-restricted activity that is limited to a particular milestone or stage 
of the information system or PII life cycles.  Rather, the privacy analysis shall continue 
throughout the information system and PII life cycles.  Accordingly, a PIA shall be considered a 
living document that agencies are required to update whenever changes to the information 
technology, changes to the agency’s practices, or other factors alter the privacy risks associated 
with the use of such information technology. 
In addition to serving as an important analytical tool for agencies, a PIA also serves as notice to 
the public regarding the agency’s practices with respect to privacy and information technology.  
All PIAs shall be drafted in plain language and shall be posted on the agency’s website, unless 
doing so would raise security concerns or reveal classified or sensitive information.  Although 
PIAs are generally required by law, such as by the E-Government Act of 2002, agencies may 
also develop policies to require PIAs in circumstances where a PIA would not be required by 
law. 
 
f. Workforce Management 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall play a key role in workforce management activities.  The 
SAOP shall be involved in assessing the hiring and professional development needs at the 
agency with respect to privacy.  The following table summarizes the privacy requirements in this 
Circular that pertain to workforce management activities.  While some of the requirements 
summarized in the table are not exclusively privacy requirements, they may still require the 
involvement of agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
                                                          
 
120 See 44 U.S.C. § 3501 note; Pub. L. 107–347, § 208(b).  Section 208(b) of the E-Government Act requires 
agencies, absent an applicable exception under this section, to conduct a PIA before: (i) developing or procuring IT 
that collects, maintains, or disseminates information that is in an identifiable form; or (ii) initiating a new collection 
of information that – (I) will be collected, maintained, or disseminated using IT; and (II) includes any information in 
an identifiable form permitting the physical or online contacting of a specific individual, if identical questions have 
been posed to, or identical reporting requirements imposed on, 10 or more persons, other than agencies, 
instrumentalities, or employees of the Federal Government. 
 
 
Appendix II - 11 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Ensure that the SAOP is 
involved in assessing and 
addressing privacy hiring, 
training, and professional 
development needs.  
Agencies shall ensure that the SAOP is involved in 
assessing and addressing the hiring, training, and 
professional development needs of the agency with 
respect to privacy. 
Main Body § 5(c)(6). 
Maintain a workforce 
planning process. 
Agencies shall ensure that the CHCO, CIO, CAO, 
and SAOP develop and maintain a current workforce 
planning process to ensure that the agency can 
anticipate and respond to changing mission 
requirements, maintain workforce skills in a rapidly 
developing IT environment, and recruit and retain 
the IT talent needed to accomplish the mission. 
Main Body § 5(c)(1). 
Develop a set of privacy 
competency requirements.  
Agencies shall ensure that the CHCO, CIO, CAO, 
and SAOP develop a set of competency requirements 
for information resources staff, including program 
managers and information security, privacy, and IT 
leadership positions. 
Main Body § 5(c)(1). 
Ensure that the workforce 
has the appropriate 
knowledge and skill. 
Agencies shall ensure that the workforce, which 
supports the acquisition, management, maintenance, 
and use of information resources, has the appropriate 
knowledge and skill. 
Main Body § 5(c)(2). 
Take advantage of flexible 
hiring authorities for 
specialized positions. 
Agencies shall ensure that the CIO, CHCO, SAOP, 
and other hiring managers take advantage of flexible 
hiring authorities for specialized positions, as 
established by OPM. 
Main Body § 5(c)(7). 
 
g. Training and Accountability 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall develop, maintain, and provide agency-wide privacy 
awareness and training programs for all employees and contractors.  In addition, the privacy 
program shall establish rules of behavior for employees and contractors with access to PII and 
hold agency personnel accountable for complying with applicable privacy requirements and 
managing privacy risks.  The following table summarizes the privacy requirements in this 
Circular that pertain to training and accountability activities.  Some of the requirements 
summarized in the table are not solely privacy requirements but may require the involvement of 
agencies’ privacy programs.  
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Maintain agency-wide 
privacy training for all 
employees and contractors. 
Agencies shall develop, maintain, and implement 
mandatory agency-wide privacy awareness and 
training programs for all employees and contractors. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(1). 
Ensure that privacy 
training is consistent with 
applicable policies. 
Agencies shall ensure that the privacy awareness and 
training programs are consistent with applicable 
policies, standards, and guidelines issued by OMB, 
NIST, and OPM. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(2). 
 
 
Appendix II - 12 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Apprise agency employees 
about available privacy 
resources.  
Agencies shall apprise agency employees about 
available privacy resources, such as products, 
techniques, or expertise.  
Appendix I § 4(h)(3). 
Provide foundational and 
advanced privacy training. 
Agencies shall provide foundational as well as more 
advanced levels of privacy training to information 
system users (including managers, senior executives, 
and contractors) and ensure that measures are in 
place to test the knowledge level of information 
system users. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(4). 
Provide role-based privacy 
training to appropriate 
employees and contractors.  
Agencies shall provide role-based privacy training to 
employees and contractors with assigned privacy 
roles and responsibilities, including managers, before 
authorizing access to Federal information or 
information systems or performing assigned duties. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(5). 
Hold personnel 
accountable for complying 
with privacy requirements 
and policies. 
Agencies shall implement policies and procedures to 
ensure that all personnel are held accountable for 
complying with agency-wide privacy requirements 
and policies. 
Appendix I § 3(b)(9). 
Establish rules of behavior 
for employees and 
contractors with access to 
PII and consequences for 
violating the rules. 
Agencies shall establish rules of behavior, including 
consequences for violating rules of behavior, for 
employees and contractors that have access to 
Federal information or information systems, 
including those that create, collect, use, process, 
store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of 
PII. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(6). 
Ensure that employees and 
contractors read and agree 
to rules of behavior. 
Agencies shall ensure that employees and contractors 
have read and agreed to abide by the rules of 
behavior for the Federal information and information 
systems for which they require access prior to being 
granted access. 
Appendix I § 4(h)(7). 
 
h. Incident Response 
Agencies’ privacy programs shall develop and implement incident management and response 
capabilities.  The following table summarizes the privacy requirements in this Circular that 
pertain to incident response.  While some of the requirements summarized in the table are not 
solely privacy requirements, they may still require the involvement of agencies’ privacy 
programs.  
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Maintain formal incident 
management and response 
policies and capabilities. 
Agencies shall maintain formal incident response 
capabilities and mechanisms, implement formal 
incident management policies, and provide 
adequate training and awareness for employees 
and contractors on how to report and respond to 
incidents. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(1), (7)-
(8).  
 
 
Appendix II - 13 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Establish roles and 
responsibilities to ensure 
oversight and coordination of 
incident response.  
Agencies shall establish clear roles and 
responsibilities to ensure the oversight and 
coordination of incident response activities and 
that incidents are documented, reported, 
investigated, and handled. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(3). 
Periodically test incident 
response procedures. 
Agencies shall periodically test incident response 
procedures to ensure effectiveness of such 
procedures. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(4). 
Document incident response 
lessons learned and update 
procedures. 
Agencies shall document lessons learned for 
incident response and update procedures annually 
or as required by OMB or DHS. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(5). 
Ensure that processes are in 
place to verify corrective 
actions. 
Agencies shall ensure that processes are in place to 
verify corrective actions. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(6). 
Report incidents in 
accordance with OMB 
guidance. 
Agencies shall report incidents to OMB, DHS, the 
CIO, the SAOP, their respective inspectors general 
and general counsel, law enforcement, and 
Congress in accordance with procedures issued by 
OMB. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(9). 
Provide reports on incidents 
as required. 
Agencies shall provide reports on incidents as 
required by FISMA, OMB policy, DHS binding 
operational directives, Federal information 
security incident center guidelines, NIST 
guidelines, and agency procedures. 
Appendix I § 4(f)(10). 
 
i. Risk Management Framework121 
Agencies’ privacy programs have responsibilities under the Risk Management Framework, 
which is also covered in Appendix I to this Circular.  The Risk Management Framework 
provides a disciplined and structured process that integrates information security, privacy, and 
risk management activities into the information system development life cycle.  This Circular 
requires agencies to use the Risk Management Framework to manage privacy risks beyond those 
that are typically included under the “confidentiality” objective of the term “information 
security.”122  While many privacy risks relate to the unauthorized access or disclosure of PII, 
                                                          
 
121 Traditionally, the Risk Management Framework was a framework to help agencies address information security 
and related risks in the authorization process for Federal information systems.  As explained in this Appendix, this 
Circular integrates agencies’ privacy programs into the Risk Management Framework process.  NIST has published 
a suite of standards and guidelines that describe how to implement an agency-wide risk management framework.  As 
of the date of this publication, many of the existing NIST standards and guidelines that detail how to implement an 
agency-wide risk management framework do not fully address the role of privacy and agencies’ privacy programs.  
In the future, NIST may revise or develop standards and guidelines to further clarify how privacy and agencies’ 
privacy programs are integrated into the Risk Management Framework. 
122 The term “information security,” as defined in law and in this Circular, includes three objectives: integrity, 
availability, and confidentiality.  The term “confidentiality” means “preserving authorized restrictions on access and 
disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.”  See 44 U.S.C. § 3552. 
 
 
Appendix II - 14 
 
privacy risks may also result from other activities, including the creation, collection, use, and 
retention of PII; the inadequate quality or integrity of PII; and the lack of appropriate notice, 
transparency, or participation.123 
The Risk Management Framework has the following steps: 
1) Categorize.  Agencies shall categorize each information system and the information 
processed, stored, and transmitted by that information system based on an assessment of 
the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of such 
information or information system would have on agency operations, agency assets, 
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.124  Each information system is 
categorized at low, moderate, or high impact according to the criteria in NIST standards 
and guidelines.  The SAOP is responsible for reviewing and approving the categorization 
of information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, 
disclose, or dispose of PII. 
The categorization of information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, 
maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII will depend on the sensitivity of the 
PII, the privacy risks, and the associated risk to agency operations, agency assets, 
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  Agencies should generally categorize 
information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, 
disclose, or dispose of PII at the moderate or high confidentiality impact level. 
2) Select. Agencies shall select security and privacy controls for each information system.  
A security control is a safeguard or countermeasure prescribed for an information system 
or an agency to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and 
its information.  Security controls primarily pertain to security but they can also enhance 
privacy.  Agencies shall select an initial set of baseline security controls for the 
information system based on the security categorization and then tailor the security 
control baseline, as needed, based on an assessment of security risk and local 
conditions.125 
A privacy control is an administrative, technical, or physical safeguard employed within 
an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage 
privacy risks.126  In order to help agencies satisfy privacy requirements and manage 
privacy risks, NIST has developed a set of privacy controls, based on the FIPPs, in 
Special Publication (SP) 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information 
                                                          
 
123 Refer to the Fair Information Practice Principles in section 3 of this Appendix. 
124 See National Institute of Standards and Technology FIPS Publication 199, Standards for Security Categorization 
of Federal Information and Information Systems (Feb. 2004), available at http://csrc.nist.gov/publications. 
125 The use of a privacy overlay may assist agencies in effectively selecting and tailoring security controls for 
information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII. 
126 Privacy risks can include risks beyond those that are typically included under the “confidentiality” prong of the 
term “information security.”  Agencies shall use privacy controls to manage all privacy risks associated with PII or 
an information system, regardless of whether those risks would be considered information security risks. 
 
 
Appendix II - 15 
 
Systems and Organizations.127  Agencies are required to use the NIST privacy controls 
and shall implement a privacy control selection process for information systems.  
Agencies shall use NIST privacy controls in a manner that is consistent with the 
agency’s authorities, missions, and operational needs. 
For privacy controls, the SAOP is responsible for designating which controls the agency 
will treat as program management, common, information system-specific, and hybrid 
controls.  Privacy program management controls are controls that are generally 
implemented at the agency level and essential for managing the agency’s privacy 
program.  Program management controls are distinct from common, information system-
specific, and hybrid controls because program management controls are independent of 
any particular information system.  Agencies shall document program management 
controls in their privacy program plan.   
The other types of controls – common, information system-specific, and hybrid controls 
– are necessarily implemented, at least in part, at the information system level.  Common 
controls are controls that are inherited by multiple information systems. When a control 
is inherited by an information system, the control is selected for the information system 
but the control is developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by 
programs or officials other than those responsible for the information system.  
Information system-specific controls are controls that are implemented for a particular 
information system or the portion of a hybrid control that is implemented for a particular 
information system.  Hybrid controls are controls that are implemented for an 
information system in part as a common control and in part as an information system-
specific control. 
The determination as to whether a privacy control is a common, hybrid, or information 
system-specific control is based on context.  By assigning privacy controls to an 
information system as information system-specific, hybrid, or common controls, the 
agency assigns responsibility and accountability to specific agency programs or officials 
for the overall development, implementation, assessment, authorization, and monitoring 
of those controls.  Privacy controls designated by the agency as common controls are, in 
most cases, managed by an agency program or official other than the information system 
owner.  Moreover, privacy controls designated as information system-specific controls 
may be the primary responsibility of information system owners and their respective 
authorizing officials.  In all cases, the management of privacy controls shall be subject to 
the coordination and oversight of the SAOP.     
3) Implement.  Agencies shall implement the security and privacy controls selected for an 
information system and document how the controls are deployed.  Agencies shall 
develop and maintain security plans and privacy plans for an information system that 
provide an overview of the security and privacy requirements for the information system 
and describe the security and privacy controls in place or planned for meeting those 
requirements.  All privacy controls that are selected for an information system shall be 
                                                          
 
127 National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for 
Federal Information Systems and Organizations (Apr. 2013), available at http://csrc.nist.gov/publications.  
 
 
Appendix II - 16 
 
documented in the privacy plan for the information system.  The security plan and the 
privacy plan may be separate or integrated into one consolidated document. 
4) Assess.  Agencies shall assess the security and privacy controls using appropriate 
methods to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, 
operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the 
security and privacy requirements for the system and managing risks.  The SAOP shall 
conduct an initial assessment of the privacy controls selected for an information system 
prior to operation, and shall assess the privacy controls periodically thereafter at a 
frequency sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and to 
manage privacy risks.  If a PIA is conducted for the information system, the agency may 
incorporate the initial assessment of the privacy controls into the PIA process. 
5) Authorize.  Agencies shall authorize an information system prior to operation and 
periodically thereafter.  Authorization of an information system is an explicit acceptance 
of the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), 
agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, based on the 
implementation of the security and privacy controls.  The determination to authorize an 
information system shall be made by an agency’s authorizing official or officials (which 
may include the SAOP) and shall be based on a review of the information system 
authorization package, which includes the security plan, the privacy plan, documented 
assessments of the security and privacy controls, and any relevant plans of action and 
milestones.  
Authorizing officials are responsible and accountable for the risks associated with an 
information system.  However, since the SAOP is the senior official, designated by the 
head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, agencies shall 
consider recommendations submitted by the SAOP in the decision to authorize an 
information system.  In addition, the SAOP is responsible for reviewing the authorization 
package for an information system that creates, collects, uses, processes, stores, 
maintains, disseminates, discloses, or disposes of PII, to ensure compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks prior to system authorization. 
6) Monitor.  Agencies shall monitor and assess security and privacy controls selected for an 
information system and shall continue to monitor and assess those controls on an 
ongoing basis.  This includes assessing the effectiveness of the security and privacy 
controls, documenting changes to the information system, analyzing the security and 
privacy impact associated with the changes, and reporting the state of the system to 
appropriate agency officials.  The type, rigor, and frequency of control assessments shall 
be sufficient to account for risks that change over time based on changes in the threat 
environment, agency missions and business functions, personnel, technology, or 
environments of operation. 
The ongoing assessment of privacy risks and privacy controls is referred to as privacy 
continuous monitoring (PCM).  The SAOP shall develop and maintain a written PCM 
strategy that catalogs the available privacy controls implemented at the agency across 
the agency risk management tiers and ensures that the controls are effectively monitored 
 
 
Appendix II - 17 
 
on an ongoing basis by assigning an agency-defined assessment frequency to each 
control that is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and 
to manage privacy risks.   
 
In addition, the SAOP shall establish and maintain a PCM program to implement the 
PCM strategy.  The PCM program is an agency-wide program that is responsible for: 
maintaining ongoing awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that may pose privacy 
risks; monitoring changes to information systems and environments of operation that 
create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; and 
conducting privacy control assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all 
privacy controls selected and implemented at the agency across the agency risk 
management tiers to ensure continued compliance with applicable privacy requirements 
and management of privacy risks. 
Although the term “privacy continuous monitoring” is new to this Circular, the concept 
of conducting an ongoing assessment of privacy risks is not new.  For many IT systems, 
agencies are already required to conduct PIAs that involve an analysis of privacy risks 
throughout the life cycle of the information system and the PII, and the drafting of a 
living document that is updated whenever changes to the IT or the agency’s practices 
alter the privacy risks associated with the use of the IT.128  In fact, for IT systems for 
which a PIA is conducted, agencies may use the PIA as the principal tool to satisfy the 
requirement to assess the privacy controls for an information system. 
The requirement for agencies to implement the Risk Management Framework is described in 
more detail in Appendix I to this Circular.  The following table summarizes the privacy 
requirements in this Circular that pertain to the Risk Management Framework.  While some of 
the requirements summarized in the table are not exclusively privacy requirements, they may still 
require the involvement of the agencies’ privacy programs. 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Implement a risk 
management 
framework. 
Agencies shall implement a risk management 
framework to guide and inform the categorization of 
Federal information and information systems; the 
selection, implementation, and assessment of privacy 
controls; the authorization of information systems and 
common controls; and the continuous monitoring of 
information systems. 
Appendix I § 3(a), 3(b)(5). 
Review and approve 
the categorization of 
information systems 
that involve PII. 
The SAOP shall review and approve, in accordance with 
NIST FIPS Publication 199 and NIST Special 
Publication 800-60, the categorization of information 
systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, 
disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII. 
Appendix I § 4(a)(2), 
4(e)(7). 
                                                          
 
128 Refer to section 5.e of this Appendix for additional information about PIAs. 
 
 
Appendix II - 18 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Designate program 
management, 
common, information 
system-specific, and 
hybrid privacy 
controls. 
The SAOP shall designate which privacy controls will 
be treated as program management, common, 
information system-specific, and hybrid privacy controls 
at the agency.  Agencies shall designate common 
controls in order to provide cost-effective privacy 
capabilities that can be inherited by multiple agency 
information systems or programs.  
Appendix I § 4(c)(12), 
4(e)(5). 
 
Implement a privacy 
control selection 
process. 
Agencies shall employ a process to select and 
implement privacy controls for information systems and 
programs that satisfies applicable privacy requirements 
in OMB guidance, including, but not limited to, 
Appendix I to this Circular and OMB Circular A-108, 
Federal Agency Responsibilities for Review, Reporting, 
and Publication under the Privacy Act.   
Appendix I § 4(c)(6). 
Develop, approve, and 
maintain privacy plans 
for information 
systems. 
The SAOP shall review and approve the privacy plans 
for agency information systems prior to authorization, 
reauthorization, or ongoing authorization.  Agencies 
shall develop and maintain a privacy plan that details the 
privacy controls selected for an information system that 
are in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy 
requirements and managing privacy risks, details how 
the controls have been implemented, and describes the 
methodologies and metrics that will be used to assess 
the controls.  
Appendix I § 4(c)(9), 
4(e)(8). 
 
Identify privacy 
control assessment 
methodologies and 
metrics. 
The SAOP shall identify assessment methodologies and 
metrics to determine whether privacy controls are 
implemented correctly, operating as intended, and 
sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and manage privacy risks. 
Appendix I § 4(e)(4). 
Conduct assessments 
of privacy controls.  
The SAOP shall conduct and document the results of 
privacy control assessments to verify the continued 
effectiveness of all privacy controls selected and 
implemented at the agency across all agency risk 
management tiers to ensure continued compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy 
risks.  Agencies shall conduct and document privacy 
control assessments prior to the operation of an 
information system, and periodically thereafter, 
consistent with the frequency defined in the agency 
privacy continuous monitoring strategy and the agency 
risk tolerance. 
Appendix I §§ 3(b)(6), 
4(c)(13)-(14), 4(e)(3). 
Correct deficiencies 
that are identified in 
information systems. 
 
Agencies shall correct deficiencies that are identified 
through privacy assessments, the privacy continuous 
monitoring program, or internal or external audits and 
reviews, to include OMB reviews.  Agencies shall use 
agency plans of action and milestones to record and 
manage the mitigation and remediation of identified 
weaknesses and deficiencies, not associated with 
accepted risks, in agency information systems.   
Appendix I § 4(c)(15), 4(k). 
 
 
 
Appendix II - 19 
 
Responsibility 
Description 
Citation 
Develop and maintain 
a privacy continuous 
monitoring strategy. 
The SAOP shall develop and maintain a privacy 
continuous monitoring strategy, a formal document that 
catalogs the available privacy controls implemented at 
the agency across the agency risk management tiers and 
ensures that the privacy controls are effectively 
monitored on an ongoing basis by assigning an agency-
defined assessment frequency to each control that is 
sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and to manage privacy risks. 
Appendix I § 4(d)(9), 
4(e)(2). 
Establish and maintain 
a privacy continuous 
monitoring program.  
The SAOP shall establish and maintain an agency-wide 
privacy continuous monitoring program that implements 
the agency’s privacy continuous monitoring strategy and 
maintains ongoing awareness of threats and 
vulnerabilities that may pose privacy risks; monitors 
changes to information systems and environments of 
operation that create, collect, use, process, store, 
maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII; and 
conducts privacy control assessments to verify the 
continued effectiveness of all privacy controls selected 
and implemented at the agency across the agency risk 
management tiers to ensure continued compliance with 
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy 
risks.  Agencies shall ensure that a robust privacy 
continuous monitoring program is in place before 
agency information systems are eligible for ongoing 
authorization. 
Appendix I §§ 3(b)(6), 
4(d)(10)-(11), 4(e)(2). 
Review authorization 
packages for 
information systems 
that involve PII. 
The SAOP shall review authorization packages for 
information systems that create, collect, use, process, 
store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of PII 
to ensure compliance with applicable privacy 
requirements and manage privacy risks, prior to 
authorizing officials making risk determination and 
acceptance decisions. 
Appendix I § 4(e)(9). 
Encrypt moderate-
impact and high-
impact information. 
Agencies shall encrypt all NIST FIPS Publication 199 
moderate-impact and high-impact information at rest 
and in transit, unless encrypting such information is 
technically infeasible or would demonstrably affect the 
ability of agencies to carry out their respective missions, 
functions, or operations; and the risk of not encrypting is 
accepted by the authorizing official and approved by the 
agency CIO, in consultation with the SAOP (as 
appropriate). 
Appendix I § 4(i)(14). 
 
6. Managing PII Collected for Statistical Purposes Under a Pledge of Confidentiality 
The Nation relies on the flow of credible statistics to support the decisions of individuals, 
households, governments, businesses, and other organizations.  Any loss of trust in the relevance, 
accuracy, objectivity, or integrity of the Federal statistical system and its products can foster 
uncertainty about the validity of measures our Nation uses to monitor and assess performance, 
progress, and needs. 
 
 
Appendix II - 20 
 
Given the importance of robust and objective official Federal statistics, agencies and components 
charged with the production of these statistics are assigned particular responsibility.  
Specifically, information acquired by an agency or component under a pledge of 
confidentiality129 and for exclusively statistical purposes shall be used by officers, employees, or 
agents of the agency exclusively for statistical purposes.130  As defined in the Confidential 
Information Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act of 2002 (CIPSEA), statistical purpose 
refers to the description, estimation, or analysis of the characteristics of groups, without 
identifying the individuals or organizations that comprise such groups; it includes the 
development, implementation, or maintenance of methods, technical or administrative 
procedures, or information resources that support such purposes.131  These agencies and 
components shall protect the integrity and confidentiality of this information against 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction throughout the life cycle of the 
information.  Further, these agencies and components shall adhere to legal requirements and 
should follow best practices for protecting the confidentiality of data, including training their 
employees and agents, and ensuring the physical and information system security of confidential 
information.  
                                                          
 
129 The term “confidentiality” can have multiple meanings.  For example, in the context of general information 
security, the term means “preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means 
for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.” See 44 U.S.C. § 3552.  However, for the purposes of 
section 6 of Appendix II to this Circular, the term “confidentiality” refers to the requirement that “data or 
information acquired by an agency under a pledge of confidentiality for exclusively statistical purposes shall not be 
disclosed by an agency in identifiable form, for any use other than an exclusively statistical purpose, except with the 
informed consent of the respondent.”  See 44 U.S.C. § 3501 note; Pub. L. 107–347, § 512(b)(1).  
130 44 U.S.C. § 3501 note; Pub. L. 107-347, § 512(a).  There are some narrowly-delineated, authorized, nonstatistical 
uses of information collected for statistical purposes that are noted in Section 504 of CIPSEA, including providing 
information to a law enforcement agency for the prosecution of submissions to the collecting agency of false 
statistical information under statutes that authorize criminal or civil penalties for the provision of false statistical 
information, unless such disclosure or use would otherwise be prohibited under Federal law. 
131 44 U.S.C. § 3501 note; Pub. L. 107-347, § 502(9)(A)). 
