 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
WASHINGTON, DC 20503 
THE DIRECTOR 
Februrary 8, 2023 
M-23-10 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES 
FROM: 
Shalanda D. Young 
SUBJECT: 
The Registration and Use of .gov Domains in the Federal Government 
This memorandum provides guidance to Federal agencies on the acceptable use and 
registration of Internet domain names as required by the DOTGOV Online Trust in Government 
Act of 2020.1 The policy requirements in this memorandum apply to all Federal agencies.2 
Introduction 
For the American people, the use of the .gov domain is a critical indicator that they are 
accessing official information, services, and communications. When .gov domains are used for 
websites, people have greater confidence that the information on those sites is authoritative and 
trustworthy. When .gov domains are used for email, people have greater confidence that the 
contents of that email are safe and secure. As a result, the .gov domain contributes to increased 
public trust in online government information and services, as well as safer operations and 
communications among all branches and levels of government. 
Public trust in the .gov domain is contingent on clear and consistent use of government 
domains (i.e., “.gov” or “.mil”). A good government domain name should be memorable for the 
American people, not longer than necessary, and describes the relevant government organization 
or service in an unambiguous way. 
The Use of .gov by Agencies 
The internet has become a primary means by which the public receives information and 
services from the Federal Government. Therefore, it is critical that the Federal Government’s use 
of internet infrastructure employs high standards of quality to maintain public trust. Because the 
use of a .gov domain is limited solely to U.S.-based government organizations and publicly 
controlled entities, the public reasonably assumes that any Federal information, services, and 
communications that use the .gov domain are official and authoritative. Thus, agencies generally 
must use the .gov or .mil domain for official communications, information, publications, delivery 
of services, design of online content, and development of digital products and tools. Agencies 
should make use of the .gov domain in ways that directly meet the needs of their diverse 
missions, customer segments, and digital product strategies. 
1 Pub. L. No. 116-260, §§ 901-07. 
2 As used in this memorandum, “agency” has the meaning given in 44 U.S.C. § 3502. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
As of April 2021, .gov domains are free of charge to all eligible registrants, including 
agencies. Agencies should register new domains, reuse existing domains, and retire unused 
domains to meet their operational needs; clearly communicate information; and deliver 
trustworthy and recognizable public services. Agencies should be good stewards of .gov and .mil 
domains to meet the expectations of the public and ensure a high level of trust.  
Agency Actions: 
• Effective on the date of this memorandum, agencies must use government domains (i.e., 
.gov or .mil) for all official communications, information, and services, except for third-
party services operated by non-governmental entities on non-governmental domains that 
are needed to effectively interact with the public. Examples of such third-party services 
include social media services, source code collaboration, and vulnerability disclosure 
reporting systems.   
• Agencies must continue to report utilization of non-.gov domains, including hostnames 
used by internet-accessible information systems, as required by M-22-09, Moving the 
U.S. Government Toward Zero Trust Cybersecurity Principles. 
o OMB will review all usage of non-.gov domains by agencies, with the goal of 
limiting the use of non-.gov domain names for official communication, 
information, and service delivery. OMB may require an agency to provide a 
rationale for the continued use of a non-.gov domain name, and, if appropriate, 
may direct an agency to cease the use of a non-.gov domain name. 
• Agencies must comply with all applicable .gov domain requirements on the .gov 
Registry's site.3 Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, agencies should review 
previously registered domains to ensure compliance with these domain requirements, 
including domain naming conventions, and identify to OMB any domains that do not 
meet these requirements. 
Requirements to Register or Renew a .gov Domain 
To register or renew a .gov domain, agencies should follow the process and the domain 
name requirements for Federal agencies on the .gov Registry's website at https://get.gov. 
• Domain name requests must have the approval of the agency’s Chief Information Officer 
or the head of the agency, and must include a detailed description of what the domain 
will be used for, who the intended audience is for the domain (including primary users), 
an explanation as to why this specific domain name is needed, and a brief description as 
to how this domain will conform to OMB policies and requirements. 
OMB will review domain requests and may contact the submitting agency with any questions 
during this process. 
Agencies can establish .gov domain names for any legitimate purpose and can register 
domains as needed to most effectively meet their mission. However, .gov domain names are a 
shared resource across all U.S.-based government organizations, and agencies have a 
3 Requirements for Federal agencies’.gov domains can be found at: 
https://home.dotgov.gov/registration/requirements/ 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
responsibility to consider carefully how potential domains might impact the public and how they 
interact with government information and services.  
OMB reviews domain requests to ensure that agencies are following relevant policies and 
domain name requirements, to help avert or resolve potential domain-naming conflicts between 
agencies, and to reduce confusion arising from overuse of similar domain names and 
misaligment between a domain name and its intended use. In areas of domain name conflict, 
OMB will seek resolution with the agencies involved. OMB may deny a domain name request or 
a domain name renewal, or may request that an agency transfer ownership of an existing domain 
to another agency to remediate potential conflict or confusion. 
Rescissions 
This memorandum rescinds the OMB memorandum entitled Policies for Dot Gov 
Domain Issuance for Federal Agency Public Websites (Dec. 8, 2014). It also supersedes section 
4 of OMB Memorandum M-11-24, Implementing Executive Order 13571 on Streamlining 
Service Delivery and Improving Customer Service (June 13, 2011), and section 9 of OMB 
Memorandum M-17-06, Policies for Federal Agency Public Websites and Digital Services (Nov. 
8, 2016). 
Assistance 
All questions or inquiries concerning this memorandum should be addressed to the OMB 
Office of the Federal Chief Information Officer (OFCIO) via email: ofcio@omb.eop.gov. For 
management of current domains and other issues, please reach out to the .gov Registry at 
dotgov@cisa.dhs.gov. 
3 
