UNCLASSIFIED (U)
5 FAM 130
IT PERFORMANCE MEASURES
(CT:IM-309;   10-26-2023)
(Office of Origin:  IRM/BMP/SPB/SPD)
5 FAM 131
GENERAL POLICIES
(CT:IM-140;   05-15-2013)
a. Performance measures are benchmarks for evaluating
efficiency, effectiveness, and results to support the organization’s
accomplishment of its mission, goals, and objectives.  The Department must meet
strategic and performance goals that reflect the mission, goals, and objectives
as presented in the strategic plan for the Department and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID
)
.
b. As required by the Government Performance and
Results Act (GPRA) of 1993, the GPRA Modernization Act (GPRAMA) of 2010, and
the Clinger-Cohen Act, the Department must also prescribe performance
measurements for information technology (IT) used by, or acquired for, the
Department.  In addition, these measurements must indicate how well the IT
supports the Department’s programs (see 40 U.S.C. 11313; see also 31
U.S.C. 1115(a)).  This includes implementing an IT performance measurement plan
that includes a process that is directly linked to decision-making activities,
and uses performance metrics (defined in
5 FAM 674
) for “business
results” to evaluate how well IT program goals are met.
c.  All Department organizations must use the most
current Performance Reference Model (PRM) developed by the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) as a guide to develop the appropriate performance measures for
monitoring and comparing IT investments across the Federal Government.
d. All Department IT managers must provide annual
performance baselines for IT programs and projects and develop specific
measurable improvements to those baselines that will be used to measure the
progress achieved towards annual program performance goals.  These goals are
specified in the appropriate mission, bureau, and joint performance plans.
e. All Department IT managers must adhere to reporting
requirements for IT performance measures initiated through the
Department’s electronic Capital Planning and Investment Control Program (CPIC)
system, which is managed by the Electronic Government Program Management Office
(E-Gov PMO).
f.  All Department IT managers and system owners are
responsible for developing performance measures to improve the accountability
of IT investments.
5 FAM 132
SCOPE AND AUTHORITY
(CT:IM-140;   05-15-2013)
a. This policy applies to all Department of State IT
entities, programs, and investments.  The Department of State and USAID measure
progress, results, and report performance against the new Joint Strategic Goal
Framework.  In accordance with GPRA\GPRAMA, both State and USAID update the
agencies' Joint Strategic Plan.
b. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) mandates
that all agencies comply with the legislative requirements for overall agency
performance and accountability for achieving business results and overall
success.
c.  The legislative authorities for this policy are in
5 FAM 113
.
5 FAM 133
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR IT
PERFORMANCE MEASURES?
(CT:IM-140;   05-15-2013)
Specific roles and responsibilities for IT performance
measures are included in
5 FAM 115
. 
These responsibilities must be carried out to fulfill the strategic goals and
objectives in
5 FAM 131
, paragraph
c.
5 FAM 134
WHY MUST IT PERFORMANCE
MEASURES BE IMPLEMENTED?
(CT:IM-140;   05-15-2013)
The Department must ensure that IT performance measures
are applied to all management programs and processes with an IT investment
(e.g., budget, financial, acquisition, security, earned-value management) so
that management decisions are sound and departmental strategic goals are
accomplished.
5 FAM 135
through 139 UNASSIGNED
UNCLASSIFIED (U)