UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 1 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) 
Evaluation Criteria 
 
 
DevSecOps Use Case  
 
 
 
 
 
29 May 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release: distribution unlimited 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 2 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
 
Contents 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................ 3 
Appendix A: DevSecOps Continuous Authorization to Operate: Scope for General Use Cases 
... 5 
Appendix B: DevSecOps Continuous Authorization: Implementation Guidance and Evaluation 
Criteria ............................................................................................................................................ 7 
Appendix C: DevSecOps cATO Assessment Overview ................................................................ 9 
Appendix D: cATO Evaluation Criteria ....................................................................................... 10 
1.0 
Continuous Monitoring .................................................................................................. 10 
2.0 
Active Cyber Defense (ACD) ........................................................................................ 13 
3.0 
Secure Software Supply Chain (SSSC) and DevSecOps ............................................... 14 
3.1 Authorize the DevSecOps Platform ................................................................................ 14 
3.2 Authorize the Process ...................................................................................................... 15 
3.3 Authorize the People ....................................................................................................... 16 
 
 
Figure 1. Single Authorization Boundary 
....................................................................................... 5 
Figure 2. Multiple Authorization Boundaries 
................................................................................. 6 
Figure 3. Software Factory/Production Boundary .......................................................................... 6 
Figure 4. Assessment Method Overview ........................................................................................ 7 
Figure 5. cATO Memo Competency Assessment Crosswalk 
......................................................... 9 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 3 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
DevSecOps Continuous Authorization to Operate 
Evaluation Criteria 
 
Executive Summary 
To maintain a competitive advantage, the Department of Defense (DoD) must develop and 
deploy software with increasing speed and agility, while improving security. Additionally, the 
DoD must respond quickly to rapidly changing threats through the continuous integration and 
delivery of capabilities, cybersecurity, resiliency, and survivability. The Department 
accomplishes this using DevSecOps practices for software development. Software factories 
(SWF) that use DevSecOps practices can mitigate threats early during software development as 
well as during operations. To allow software delivery organizations to deploy more secure 
software faster, the Department will implement a new approach to system authorizations: 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO).  
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) is a modernized authorization process designed to 
work with software delivery organizations that want to move faster and are willing to adopt the 
necessary culture change. cATO moves away from solely a document-based, point-in-time 
technical security assessment approach (though some point-in-time documents are still required), 
towards focusing on a continuous risk determination and authorization concept by continuously 
assessing, monitoring, and managing risk. cATO raises the security standard over a traditional 
Authorization to Operate (ATO) and provides the ability to deploy software more rapidly to the 
field while improving security. (See Glossary for a more precise definition of cATO.) 
A software factory with a cATO is allowed to continuously develop, assess, and deploy software 
that meets the risk tolerances laid out within a system authorization boundary. 
A DevSecOps cATO is based on continual assessment of the processes, the skills of its SWF 
teams, and the use of a DevSecOps Platform that meets one of the DoD Enterprise DevSecOps 
Reference Designs, and which implements continuous monitoring, active cyber defense, and the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) secure supply chain guidance.  
Overview 
This cATO Evaluation Criteria establishes the use cases and guidelines for evaluating a request 
for continuous authorization for a software factory (for an explanation of a DevSecOps platform 
and software factory, see DoD Enterprise DevSecOps Fundamentals). 
Additionally, it provides the recommended processes and information required for software 
factories to generate a cATO package and send to DCIO(CS) for review and approval. Appendix 
A outlines the two use cases for which requesting a DevSecOps (DSO) cATO is appropriate. 
Appendix B highlights the baseline guidance and assessment overview as well as the specific 
information required for the cATO package. Please note that due to evolving requirements, this 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 4 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
is a living document on the RMF Knowledge Service. Appropriate communities will be notified 
as updates are made. 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 5 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Appendix A: DevSecOps Continuous Authorization to Operate: Scope for General Use 
Cases  
Programs or software factories applying for a DSO cATO should already be in one of the 
following use case categories. 
Use Case 1 (Inside the Software Factory Boundary): A software factory uses a development, 
security, and operations (DevSecOps) platform that already has an ATO. Software is developed 
in that factory and deployed within its production environment (i.e., within its system boundary) 
as depicted in Figure 1. The software factory seeks a cATO that includes its production 
environment. This is the main use case for a SWF leveraging cATO. Example: Software 
developed and put into production using the Platform One (P1) Party Bus. (Note: Information 
flow includes development, test, and security artifacts).  
Figure 1. Single Authorization Boundary 
Use Case 2 (Outside the SWF Boundary): A software factory using a DevSecOps platform that 
already has an ATO, but the software is deployed into another authorization boundary (e.g., a 
weapon system) with its own ATO as depicted in Figure 2. The software factory seeks a cATO 
for the factory that allows deployment into the production environment. This involves at least 
two authorization boundaries and there must be agreements in place to pass software across the 
boundary and subsequently pass results and feedback back to the software factory. Example: The 
Forge Software Factory has an ATO to build software that is then deployed on Navy ships, each 
of which have their own ATOs.  
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 6 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Figure 2. Multiple Authorization Boundaries 
An outcome of issuing a cATO for use case 2 is to seamlessly deliver software factory products 
into the production environment through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and an 
Interconnection Security Agreement (ISA). 
Figure 3 shows the DevSecOps continuous lifecycle and the delineation between the software 
factory that is primarily responsible for creating the software product and the associated 
production environment where the software will execute. (Note: the outer path shows steps in the 
Risk Management Framework (RMF) process, but this diagram does not directly map these to 
the lifecycle phases. All the RMF steps must be followed, and the system must be in the 
Monitor phase of RMF, before a system can apply for a cATO.)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Software Factory/Production Boundary 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 7 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Appendix B: DevSecOps Continuous Authorization: Implementation Guidance and 
Evaluation Criteria 
While the DoD RMF Knowledge Service is the authoritative source for cATO implementation 
guidance, this appendix provides an overview of how to assess a SWF for cATO along with the 
requirements to deploy applications outside of the SWF authorization boundary in accordance 
with DoD ISCM Strategy. 
Figure 4 depicts an overview of the cATO assessment method. The top row shows the related 
RMF steps: prepare, assess, authorize, and monitor. Other RMF steps (i.e., categorize, select, and 
implement) take place outside the review process. The next row, with chevrons, indicates the 
steps taken during the cATO assessment: identify assessors, develop an assessment plan, assess 
the DevSecOps Platform (DSOP), assess the SWF teams, assess the DSO processes, develop a 
cATO authorization recommendation, authorize the cATO, and constantly monitor the risk.  
 
Figure 4. Assessment Method Overview 
Software Factory practices required for cATO are informed by the existing RMF authorization to 
operate assessment and the implementation of continuous monitoring. This assumes that before 
applying for a cATO, the software factory has already progressed into the monitoring phase of 
RMF and has a valid ATO. The cATO assessment further evaluates the ‘Prepare’, ‘Assess’, and 
‘Authorize’ RMF phases. However, the key to receiving a cATO is having a robust continuous 
monitoring strategy that includes automated triggers based on approved thresholds within the 
auditing and incident response plans. The automated triggers and approved thresholds should 
include both internal and external threats. Additionally, a complete understanding and 
implementation (or planned implementation) of the shift security left and shield right concept 
that incorporates vulnerability scanning and compliance checking with detection and response 
activities to security incidents in real time. This includes tight integration with a Cybersecurity 
Service Provider (CSSP) and Security Operations Center (SOC) if established. Hosting an 
environment (development, test, staging, production, etc.) on a cloud requires the deployment of 
a Cloud Native Application Protection Platform (CNAPP). Once the Chief Information Security 
• Identify skills
• Train on method
• Identify activities
• Develop schedule
• Identify costs
• Identify critical cATO 
practices
• Develop eval criteria 
& scoring
• Coordinate with PMO
• Coordinate with AO
• Review key practices
• Review evidence of use
• Interview personnel
• Score against eval criteria
• Capture ﬁndings
• Aggregate ﬁndings
• Roll up scores
• Develop 
recommendation
• Identify constraints
• Review with PMO
• Review with AO
• Review with 
CISO 
• CISO Issues 
authorization
Identify 
Assessors
Develop 
Assessment 
Plan
Assess 
DevSecOps 
Platform
Assess 
Teams
Assess 
Processes
Develop cATO 
Authorization 
Recommendation
Authorize 
cATO
Monitor 
Risk
• Continuous 
Monitoring
• Alert/Action 
triggered if issue 
found
• Alert may 
trigger a cATO 
review
• If review 
triggered, 
CISO 
decides if cATO 
revoked
Prepare
Assess
Authorize
Monitor
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 8 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Officer (CISO)1 grants a cATO, continuous monitoring practices (including the CSSP) monitor 
the risk. Upon identification of an issue or anomaly, the CSSP, along with the Security Control 
Assessor (SCA), shall investigate and mitigate as necessary. If the issue or anomaly is outside of 
agreed upon thresholds, the CSSP or SCA in collaboration with the Authorizing Official (AO) 
may initiate a review of the cATO. If so, the CISO may decide to revoke the cATO. However, 
with the approval of the originating Component authorizing official, the system can revert to its 
original ATO by kicking off a new workflow in the Component’s RMF Inventory Tool, if the 
cATO is revoked.  
The approval to implement cATO process within a DevSecOps software factory is granted by 
following the RMF guidelines identified in CNSSI 1253, NIST SP 800-53 and DoDI 8510.01. In 
order to receive an approved cATO, the software factory must have a current ATO with no 
‘High’ or ‘Very High’ unmitigated findings. The cATO analysis will review the existing 
authorization, further evaluate the continuous monitoring strategy, ensure active cyber defense is 
implemented properly, assess the DevSecOps and supply chain processes, and validate that they 
are following cybersecurity supply chain risk management guidance in accordance with NIST SP 
800-161r1. 
 
 
 
1 Currently, this level of authority is at the DoD-level. Once cATO criteria is standardized for the DevSecOps use 
case, the DoD CISO will delegate approval authority to the Component CISO or equivalent. 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 9 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Appendix C: DevSecOps cATO Assessment Overview 
The three competencies in the memo “Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO),” February 
3, 2022, are (1) Continuous Monitoring (CONMON), (2) Active Cyber Defense (ACD) and (3) 
Secure Software Supply Chain (SSSC). However, the assessment of this use case is organized 
into evaluating the DevSecOps Platform, Processes, and People (Teams). This section discusses 
how to reconcile these two sets of concepts. To be considered for cATO, the environment must 
ensure:  
1) The DevSecOps Platform (DSOP) contains essential automation to enable CONMON, 
ACD, and to support DevSecOps (DSO) tooling for a Secure Software Supply Chain 
(SSSC). 
2) Processes are defined for people using, operating, and maintaining the DSOP. 
3) People are trained on the DSOP and its processes. 
The cATO applies to the software factory, which includes the DSOP, and the software produced 
by the software factory. The processes for using the SWF and DSOP must be clear, and the 
people must be familiar with all aspects of DevSecOps. 
Figure 5 depicts a high-level crosswalk between these two sets of concepts, showing how they 
relate. The main columns represent the three competencies, while the rows show the three 
aspects of the cATO Assessment. 
 
Figure 5. cATO Memo Competency Assessment Crosswalk 
 
 
 
 
cATO Memo Competencies
SSSC & DevSecOps
Active Cyber Defense
CONMON
Automation to secure the 
supply chain, enforce 
policy, and enable control 
gates
Automation generates 
evidence and alerts; 
automatically kills bad 
containers; CSSP integrated 
with DSOP team
Generates, analyzes, and 
displays machine 
evidence throughout the 
lifecycle in near real
-time
DSOP
cATO Assessment
DSOP engineering to 
monitor and improve 
practices
Ongoing active cyber testing, 
including incident response
CONMON process 
regularly validated and 
tested
Process
Cyber dashboard collects 
relevant information for all 
DSO stages; all staff 
trained on DSO process
Team understands active 
cyber artifacts and approach 
to defend; CSSP integrated 
into team
Team trained on 
CONMON automation 
and DSOP alerts 
generated by the software 
factory
People
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 10 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Appendix D: cATO Evaluation Criteria 
The following list of activities associated with the Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) 
competencies are what the DoD CISO considers when Component CISOs present systems that 
are requesting to move into a cATO state.  
The presence of these activities will be partly determined through demonstrated use of system-
level dashboards, which are a culmination of information received from logging, testing, and the 
following activities to provide a real-time view of the environment. Components are not limited 
to the way they conduct the following activities; however, this document offers guidelines to 
achieving a cATO.  
Items in bold in this section indicate documents or artifacts that must be delivered as part of the 
application for cATO package. 
 
1.0  Continuous Monitoring 
• cATO Risk Management Strategy  
o Must include established cATO risk tolerances based on the Components’ risk 
posture guidance 
o Must include process, management, and tracking of insider and external threats 
o IAW DoDI 8510.01 
• System CONMON Strategy 
o Will be assessed IAW organizational Risk Management Strategy 
o Includes plan to continuously assess and track vulnerabilities on all the system 
assets within the infrastructure 
o Includes determination of organizationally or software factory-specified metrics 
(measures) to establish patterns and discern threats such as: 
 Implementation measures to measure execution of security policy 
 Effectiveness/efficiency measures to measure results of security services 
delivery 
 Impact measures to measure business or mission consequences of security 
events 
o Includes timelines for continuous monitoring of security controls (automated 
every hour, minute, second; manual once a year, etc.) 
o Includes tight coupling with auditing and incident response strategies 
• System Authorization Boundary Diagram 
o Include data flows (including Personal Identifiable Information (PII) 
o Include detailed information for all external connections IAW Appendix E 
Diagram Requirements of the DISA Connection Process Guide 
• Business Rules 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 11 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o The following are examples of the type of business rules to be established by the 
system: 
 Closely involve DoDM 8140.03certified cybersecurity experts throughout 
the life of the program 
 Define and assign cybersecurity roles and responsibilities 
 Identify and retain Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to ensure the 
cybersecurity risk posture of the system is maintained during operations 
 Establish a vulnerability coordination Point of Contact (POC) 
 Align staffing to address detected and identified vulnerabilities 
 AO and designated cybersecurity personnel must have real-time access to 
the results of testing, scanning, monitoring, and performance metrics at the 
platform or application level in a mutually agreeable format (i.e., 
dashboards, alerts, etc.) 
 Identify, assess, prioritize, and share risk information in real time 
 Identify risks in real time and initiate corrective action plans to mitigate 
them 
• Automated Monitoring Information 
o Status of dashboarding activities, including a demonstration of the dashboard in 
operation 
o Must be readily available and as near real time as feasible 
o Includes a dashboard with relevant current information and requirements that 
helps security personnel perform their tasks 
o Must provide compliance reporting statistics to the Continuous Monitoring & 
Risk Scoring (CMRS) system of record via automated processes if possible.  If 
not possible, manual reporting is required until automated process is developed. 
o Includes an alerting capability that contacts security personnel when appropriate 
o Demonstrate which security controls are fed into a system-level dashboard view, 
providing a real time and robust mechanism for AOs to view the environment 
o Helps secure the software supply chain, the software development pipeline and its 
environment must be monitored as well 
• System Authorization Package Documentation (leveraged from the Component’s 
RMF Inventory Tool) 
o Security Assessment Plan (SAP) 
o Security Assessment Report (SAR) 
o Risk Assessment Report (RAR) 
o System Security Plan (SSP) 
o ATO memo (Signed) 
o Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms) 
o Update documents in response to CONMON process 
 Security Assessment 
• Ensure it covers the DSOP supporting full lifecycle, including the 
delivery pipeline and addresses: 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 12 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Threat modeling and vulnerability analysis 
o Independent verification of assessment plans and evidence 
o Penetration testing 
o Attack surface reviews 
o Manual code reviews 
o Verifying the scope of Testing and Evaluation (T&E) 
o Static Application Security Testing (SAST) 
o Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) 
o Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) 
• Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) / Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) 
o Evidence of COOP/DRP testing 
 Examples include: 
• Read-throughs, walk-throughs, simulations etc. 
• Backup activities 
• Restoration plan 
• Incident Response Plan 
o Incident Response Management 
 Evidence of a program in place that includes: 
• Policies 
• Plans 
• Procedures 
• Defined roles 
• Training 
• Proof of communication efforts 
 Examples of evidence include: 
• Read-throughs, walk-throughs, simulations etc. 
• Tabletop exercise 
 Capabilities to detect and respond to attackers 
• Behavior Monitoring evidence 
• Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems evidence 
• Continuous Vulnerability Management Documentation 
o Evidence of mitigation 
 Published expectations and timelines for corrective action plans and 
remediation efforts 
 Published plan to ensure availability of staff and resources 
 Findings tracked using Deficiency Reports and system-level POA&Ms 
o Vulnerability scanning procedures IAW DoDI 8530.01 
o Leverage process and automation to enable identification of highest priority items 
and vulnerabilities to remediate (verified through documentation and 
demonstration)  
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 13 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Monitor for new threat and vulnerability information IAW DoD and Component 
level Information Security Continuous Monitoring (ISCM) strategies. 
Critical and moderate vulnerabilities are documented upon discovery 
and mitigated within a timeframe acceptable to the AO 
• Audit log analysis 
o Collect, analyze, alert, review, and retain audit logs IAW NIST SP 800-53 
security controls  
o Evaluation of events that could help detect, understand, or recover from an attack, 
as described in Appendix A of OMB M-21-31 
• cATO Approval Memo (located on the RMF Knowledge Service (KS)) 
o While cATO approval authority resides with the DoD CISO, this template will be 
filled out by the cATO Assessment Methodology Working Group and submitted 
with the Components’ cATO package 
 
2.0  Active Cyber Defense (ACD) 
• Certified Cybersecurity Service Provider (CSSP) 
o IAW DoDI 8530.01,Meeting the Evaluator’s Scoring Metrics requirements  
o External - CSSP Service Level Agreement (SLA) for both on premises and cloud 
systems 
o Internal – Documentation of methodology supporting ACD 
o Inherited – Agreements/documentation where integration occurs 
o Outline scope and parameters of CSSP support for on-prem and cloud systems 
o Employ CSSP sensors and tools to detect vulnerabilities 
o Provide evidence that CSSP received training on DevSecOps principles for 
the Software Factories that are being monitored 
• External Assessment Results and Remediation Evidence 
o A penetration test must be completed on development and operational 
environments by a qualified third party within 90 days and annually thereafter, 
with one of the following options, per the AO: 
 Cyber Operations Rapid Assessment (CORA) 
 Red/Blue Team assessment 
 Pen Testing 
 Exception-to-Policy is required for any other type of assessment 
o Some areas of focus include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 Testing the effectiveness and resiliency of enterprise assets through 
identifying and exploiting weaknesses in the cybersecurity defense posture 
(people, processes, and technology), and simulating the objectives and 
actions of an attacker.  
 Testing the authorization boundary IAW DoDI 8531.01, in search of 
weaknesses that would allow unauthorized access. 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 14 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Provide a Vulnerability and Penetration Assessment 
o AO provided results with findings and planned mitigations. 
o Updated document POA&Ms where appropriate 
o Lessons Learned tracking 
• Security Testing and Documentation 
o Security testing should be conducted on an ongoing basis and test against 
adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations  
o Strategy and budget for automated cybersecurity testing resources 
o Documentation of the ongoing iterations of cybersecurity analysis and penetration 
testing 
o Documentation and evaluation of the impact of system or environment changes to 
the cybersecurity defense posture 
 
3.0  Secure Software Supply Chain (SSSC) and DevSecOps 
3.1 Authorize the DevSecOps Platform 
• Use of a DevSecOps Platform (DSOP) that implements an approved DevSecOps 
Reference Design, or implementation of an approved DevSecOps Reference Design 
o Identify the DevSecOps Reference Design to which the DSOP adheres 
o Approved DoD Enterprise DevSecOps Reference Designs are posted to the DoD 
CIO public library 
• Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) 
o Provide a SBOM for the DSOP with a statement of how it was developed 
o Provide an automated export of the SBOM for applications/products passing 
through the DSOP 
o Specify the SBOM format and how often it is generated  
 SBOM should be in one of the common formats: 
• Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX) 
• Software Identification Tags (SWID) 
• CycloneDX 
• However, the format has not yet been mandated. SBOM is 
currently undergoing regulatory action, Defense Information 
Systems Agency (DISA) Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) is 
the lead 
o Maintain an archive of SBOMs for products passing through pipelines. This can 
be kept in the same area as the assessment evidence (e.g., results of security tests) 
for the products 
o Explain how the SBOMs are analyzed. If a new cybersecurity vulnerability 
appears in the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE®) system, explain 
how the organization applies it to the SBOMs 
• Activities and Tools Mapping  
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 15 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Based on the DevSecOps Activities and Tools Guidebook, provide the mapping 
of the required and preferred DevSecOps activities to the system’s 
implementation. 
o Include any additional documentation listed with the mapped activities in the 
Activities and Tools Guidebook 
o Provide Activities and Tools Mapping POA&Ms/Roadmap to show continuous 
improvement 
o Provide demonstration of various activities listed within the Activities and Tools 
Guidebook (selected activities determined during the cATO evaluation) 
• Cloud Native Application Protection Platform - Employ an integrated set of security 
and compliance capabilities to secure and protect cloud-native applications across 
development and production to include: 
o Artifact Scanning: 
 Software Composition Analysis to review artifacts to find open-source 
libraries included. This should be addressed in the creation of the SBOMs. 
 Application Security Testing such as SAST, DAST, and IAST 
o Cloud Configuration: 
 Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) for continuous monitoring, 
detection, and remediation of cloud security misconfigurations. 
 Cloud Infrastructure Entitlement Management (CIEM) for management of 
access rights, permissions, or privileges for the identities of a single or 
multi-cloud environment. 
 Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Scanning to find security flaws before 
pushing to production. 
o Runtime Protection: 
 Cloud Workload Protection (CWPP) to provide runtime enforcement 
 Cloud Detection and Response (CDR) to provide advanced threat 
detection, incident response, and continuous monitoring capabilities 
specifically designed for cloud environments. 
3.2 Authorize the Process 
• Reliance on Infrastructure as Code (IaC) and Configuration as Code (CaC) to avoid 
environment drift 
• Control Gate and Guardrail Analysis 
o These processes should be described in the Incident Response Management 
section above 
o Provide a description of each control gate and what triggers cause the gate to 
close and open. This should include what triggers an alert and how to respond to 
that alert 
o Demonstrate each control gate in action (this may be in a non-production 
environment) or provide screen shots of control gate output as displayed in a 
dashboard 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 16 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Provide a description of each guardrail and the process that occurs when 
something is out of the risk tolerance for each guardrail 
3.3 Authorize the People 
• Verification of appropriate training for each member of the team(s), based on their 
role(s) 
o Provide an organization chart showing the roles within the DSO Team 
o Demonstrate appropriate separation of duties and least privilege are applied to all 
personnel 
o Periodically conduct Tabletop Exercises with the whole team and produce After 
Action Reports 
 Exercises should include: 
• Security incident response procedures 
• Standard procedures for the DSOP, including how to respond when 
a control gate triggers 
• How to respond to a security alert 
• Requests for elevated privileges 
• The organizational DevSecOps education, certification, and training process is 
documented. Documentation need not be text documents but may be in online learning 
management tools that assessors can view. Possible areas of training include Agile, 
DevSecOps, secure coding, security automation tools, interpreting vulnerability scanning 
reports, cATO method, etc. 
o The team members are trained in the cATO method: 
 Trained on the appropriate version of the DoD Enterprise DevSecOps 
Reference Design. 
 Trained on the security automation tools and how they are used. 
 Trained on the Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) 
control gates, promotion rules, and the established risk tolerances. 
 Trained on the resolution / adjudication of security findings that result in 
exceeding the risk tolerances. 
 Ability to perform root cause analysis of “critical” and “substantive” 
security findings. 
 Trained in continuous monitoring feedback loops for ensuing continuous 
risk monitoring against tolerances. 
 Trained in the establishment of POA&M and security dashboard 
monitoring in a DevSecOps environment. 
o Verification of appropriate training for each member based on their role on the 
Product/Application Team, DSOP Team, or Security Team 
o Verification of cybersecurity team member qualifications in accordance with DoD 
DoDM 8140.03 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 17 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
o Document cross-functional team training and shadowing 
• Insider Threat Monitoring 
o Validate an insider threat working group is established, active, and chaired by 
senior leadership 
 Validate insider threat working group identifies critical areas for review 
along with thresholds for analysis 
o The below concepts can be used to protect against insider threats: 
 Separation of duties 
 Paired programming 
 Least privilege management with respect to containers/cloud 
environments 
• Onboarding/Offboarding 
o An onboarding/offboarding process is defined for new team members based on 
their role. 
o Show evidence that all personnel have gone through the 
onboarding/offboarding process, without regard to their rank or position. 
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 18 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Glossary 
Authorization boundary “All components of an information system to be authorized for 
operation by an authorizing official. This excludes separately authorized systems to which the 
information system is connected.” NIST 800-37r2. 
Authorizing Official (AO) is “a senior Federal official or executive with the authority to 
authorize (i.e., assume responsibility for) the operation of an information system or the use of a 
designated set of common controls at an acceptable level of risk to agency operations (including 
mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the 
Nation.” NIST 800-37r2. 
Authorization to Operate (ATO) is “the official management decision given by a senior 
Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly 
accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency 
assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an 
agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Authorization also applies to common controls 
inherited by agency information systems.” NIST 800-37r2. 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) is the state achieved when the organization that 
develops, secures, and operates a system has demonstrated sufficient maturity in their ability to 
maintain a resilient cybersecurity posture that traditional risk assessments and authorizations 
become redundant. This organization must have implemented robust information security 
continuous monitoring capabilities, active cyber defense, and secure software supply chain 
requirements to enable continuous delivery of capabilities without adversely impacting the 
system’s cyber posture. 
Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) Pipeline is the process workflows and 
associated tools to achieve the continuous integration and continuous delivery of software with 
maximum use of automation. 
Control gate is a defined point in the project lifecycle when specific requirements, called exit 
criteria, must be met to move to the next phase in the lifecycle. Exit criteria include functional, 
security, and non-functional criteria. 
DevSecOps is a software engineering culture and practice that aims at unifying software 
development (Dev), security (Sec) and operations (Ops). The main characteristic of DevSecOps 
is to automate, monitor, and apply security at all phases of software development: plan, develop, 
build, test, release, deliver, deploy, operate, and monitor. 
DevSecOps Platform (DSOP) is the set of tools and automation that enables a software factory. 
It includes the ability to create DevSecOps pipelines with control gates, and to deploy software 
into development and test environments. It may also deploy into production, depending on the 
production environment. Use of a DevSecOps platform is encouraged to accelerate development, 
delivery, and authorization. DoD Enterprise DevSecOps Reference Designs for a DSOP may be 
found here. 
ISCM is defined as “maintaining ongoing awareness of information security, vulnerabilities, and 
threats to support organizational risk management decisions.” NIST SP 800-137.  
UNCLASSIFIED 
 
Continuous Authorization to Operate (cATO) – Evaluation Criteria  
Page 19 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
Software Factory is a software assembly plant that contains multiple pipelines, which are 
equipped with a set of tools, process workflows, scripts, and environments, to produce a set of 
software deployable artifacts with minimal human intervention. It automates the activities in the 
develop, build, test, release, and deliver phases. The software factory supports multi-tenancy. 
System is any organized assembly of resources and procedures united and regulated by 
interaction or interdependence to accomplish a set of specific functions. NIST 800-37r2. 
