 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
 
  
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 
 
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503 
 
 
 
August 22, 2008 
M-08-23 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICERS 
 
FROM: 
Karen Evans 
Administrator, Office of E-Government and Information Technology 
 
SUBJECT: 
Securing the Federal Government’s Domain Name System Infrastructure 
(Submission of Draft Agency Plans Due by September 5, 2008) 
 
The efficient and effective use of our networks is important to promote a more citizen centered 
and results oriented government.  The Government’s reliance on the Internet to disseminate and 
provide access to information has increased significantly over the years, as have the risks 
associated with potential unauthorized use, compromise, and loss of the .gov domain space.   
 
Almost every instance of network communication begins with a request to the Domain Name 
System (DNS) to resolve a human readable name for a network resource (e.g., www.usa.gov) 
into the technical information (e.g., Internet Protocol address) necessary to actually access the 
remote resource.  This memorandum describes existing and new policies for deploying Domain 
Name System Security (DNSSEC) to all Federal information systems by December 2009.  
DNSSEC provides cryptographic protections to DNS communication exchanges, thereby 
removing threats of DNS-based attacks and improving the overall integrity and authenticity of 
information processed over the Internet. 
 
Existing Policy 
In December 2006, the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Special 
Publication 800-53r1 “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems” 
prescribed initial DNSSEC deployment steps necessary for FISMA high and moderate impact 
information systems. 
 
New Policy  
This memorandum addresses two important issues in following through with the existing policy 
and expanding its scope to address all USG information systems. 
 
A. The Federal Government will deploy DNSSEC to the top level .gov domain by January 
2009.  The top level .gov domain includes the registrar, registry, and DNS server 
operations. This policy requires that the top level .gov domain will be DNSSEC signed 
and processes to enable secure delegated sub-domains will be developed.  Signing the top 
level .gov domain is a critical procedure necessary for broad deployment of DNSSEC, 
increases the utility of DNSSEC, and simplifies lower level deployment by agencies. 
 
B. Your agency must now develop a plan of action and milestones for the deployment of 
DNSSEC to all applicable information systems.  Appropriate DNSSEC capabilities must 
 
 
be deployed and operational by December 2009.  The plan should follow 
recommendations in NIST Special Publication 800-81 “Secure Domain Name System 
(DNS) Deployment Guide,” and address the particular requirements described in NIST 
Special Publication 800-53r1 “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information 
Systems.”1   
 
The plan should report your agency’s current level of compliance with the current 
DNSSEC requirements of NIST Special Publication 800-53r1, and document a plan of 
action and milestones that assume the scope of the requirement to operate DNSSEC 
signed zones (SC-20) will be expanded to cover all FISMA information systems 
(including low impact systems2) in revision 3 of NIST Special Publication 800-53.  The 
plan should ensure that all Agency .gov domains are DNSSEC signed by December 
2009. 
 
 
Your agency's draft plan of action and milestones should follow the general outline 
provided below and be sent to OMB at fisma@omb.eop.gov by September 5, 2008.  The 
draft plans will be reviewed and feedback will be provided.  Mutually-agreed upon final 
plans will be in place by October 24, 2008.  Going forward, agency progress to deploy 
DNSSEC will be tracked and evaluated through annual Federal Information Security 
Management Act (FISMA) reporting.  
 
Additional Resources 
 
The following resources provide additional technical information and guidance to support your 
agency’s DNSSEC deployment. 
• The USG DNSSEC deployment email list: usg-forum@dnssec-deployment.org 
• The DNSSEC Deployment Initiative: http://www.dnssec-deployment.org/ 
• The NIST DNSSEC project: http://www-x.antd.nist.gov/dnssec/ 
• The Secure Naming Infrastructure Pilot (SNIP): http://www.dnsops.gov/ 
• The FISMA Implementation Project: http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/fisma/index.html 
 
 
DNSSEC Deployment Plan Outline 
 
Section 1 - Enumerate .gov Domains.  Enumerate the second level domains beneath .gov 
operated by your agency (or on behalf of your agency).  Only the second level sub-domains need 
to be listed. 
                                                 
1 Specific DNSSEC controls are described in SC-8, SC-20, SC-21, and SC-22 of Special Publication 800-53r1.   To 
effectively deploy DNSSEC, your agency should follow recommendations in NIST Special Publication 800-81 
“Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Deployment Guide.” Procedures for assessing DNSSEC controls are 
described in NIST’s Special Publication 800-53A “Guide for Assessing the Security Controls in Federal Information 
Systems.”   
2 For more information about categorizing information systems by impact level, see Federal Information Processing 
Standard Publication 199 “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems.” 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Identify Sources of DNS Services.  For each domain listed above, describe if your 
DNS administration and server operation are provided in house, outsourced to a commercial 
provider (e.g., vendor), or delivered by other means (e.g., provided by another agency). 
 
Section 3 - Describe DNS Server Infrastructure.  Document the provider, vendor, or source of 
DNS server implementations within your agency (e.g., BIND, NSD, Microsoft Advanced 
Directory, etc.).  Include in your estimate the number of such servers per source. 
 
Section 4 - Identify and Address Barriers.  Document any perceived technical, contractual or 
operational barriers impeding deployment of DNSSEC, and milestones for addressing each. 
 
Section 5 – Train and Pilot.  Review the activities of the USG Secure Naming Infrastructure Pilot 
at www.dnsops.gov and plan for your agency will participate in this pilot test bed, as well as 
associated training workshops.  
 
Section 6 – Plan of Action and Milestones.  Document your Agency’s plan of action and 
milestones to fully implement the policies described in this memo.  In particular this plan should 
detail all key activities (e.g., acquisition if necessary, training, test, deployment, operations plans 
with priority given to citizen services and E-government domains especially those that collect 
any personally identifiable information) and milestones necessary to achieve the goal of fully 
operating DNSSEC signed .gov sub-domains by December 2009. 
 
 
