EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT  
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET  
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503  
June 8, 2015 
M-15-13 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEP 
FROM:  
Tony Scott 
Federal Chief 
Information Officer 
SUBJECT:  
Policy to Require Secure Connections across Federal Websites and Web 
Services 
This Memorandum requires that all publicly accessible Federal websites and web 
services1 only provide service through a secure connection. The strongest privacy and integrity 
protection currently available for public web connections is Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure 
(HTTPS). 
This Memorandum expands upon the material in prior Office ofManagement and Budget 
(OMB) guidance found in M-05-042 and relates to material in M-08-233. It provides guidance to 
agencies for making the transition to HTTPS and a deadline by which agencies must be in 
compliance. 
Background 
The unencrypted HTTP protocol does not protect data from interception or alteration, 
which can subject users to eavesdropping, tracking, and the modification of received data. The 
majority of 
Federal websites use HTTP as the as primary protocol to communicate over the 
public internet. Unencrypted HTTP connections create a privacy vulnerability and expose 
potentially sensitive information about users ofunencrypted Federal websites and services. Data 
sent over HTTP is susceptible to interception, manipulation, and impersonation. This data can 
include browser identity, website content, search terms, and other user-submitted information. 
1 Publicly-accessible websites and services are defined here as online resources and services available over HTTP or 
HTTPS over the public internet that are maintained in whole or in part by the Federal Government and operated by 
an agency, contractor, or other organization on behalf of the agency. They present government information or 
provide services to the public or a specific user group and support the performance of an agency's mission. This 
definition includes all web interactions, whether a visitor is logged-in or anonymous. 
2 https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/fv2005/m05-04.pdf "Policies for Federal 
Agency Public Websites" 
3 https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/omb/memoranda/fy2008/m08-23.pdf "Securing 
the Federal Government's Domain Name System Infrastructure." 
1 
To address these concerns, many commercial organizations have adopted HTTPS or 
implemented HTTPS-only policies to protect visitors to their websites and services. Users of 
Federal websites and services deserve the same protection. Private and secure connections are 
becoming the Internet's baseline, as expressed by the policies ofthe Internet's standards bodies4, 
popular web browsers, and the Internet community ofpractice. The Federal government must 
adapt to this changing landscape, and benefits by beginning the conversion now. Proactive 
investment at the Federal level will support faster internet-wide adoption and promote better 
privacy standards for the entire browsing public. 
All browsing activity should be considered private and sensitive. 
An HTTPS-Only standard will eliminate inconsistent, subjective determinations across 
agencies regarding which content or browsing activity is sensitive in nature, and create a stronger 
privacy standard government-wide. 
Federal websites that do not convert to HTTPS will not keep pace with privacy and 
security practices used by commercial organizations, and with current and upcoming Internet 
standards. This leaves Americans vulnerable to known threats, and may reduce their confidence· 
in their government. Although some Federal websites currently use HTTPS, there has not been a 
consistent policy in this area. An HTTPS-only mandate will provide the public with a consistent, 
private browsing experience and position the Federal Government as a leader in Internet security. 
What HTTPS Does 
HTTPS verifies the identity of 
a website or web service for a connecting client, and 
encrypts nearly all information sent between the website or service and the user. Protected 
information includes cookies, user agent details, URL paths, form submissions, and query string 
parameters. HTTPS is designed to prevent this information from being read or changed while in 
transit. 
HTTPS is a combination ofHTTP and Transport Layer Security (TLS). TLS is a 
network protocol that establishes an encrypted connection to an authenticated peer over an 
untrusted network. 
Browsers and other HTTPS clients are configured to trust a set of 
certificate authorities5 
that can issue cryptographically signed certificates on behalf ofweb service owners. These 
certificates communicate to the client that the web service host demonstrated ownership ofthe 
domain to the certificate authority at the time of 
certificate issuance. This prevents unknown or 
untrusted websites from masquerading as a Federal website or service. 
4 https://w3ctag.github.io/web-https/ "The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)" 
https://www.internetsociety.org/news/internet-societv-comm·ends-internet-architecture-board­
recommendation-encrvptio 
n-defa 
u 
It "Internet Society" 
5 In the context of HTIPS on the web, a certificate authority is a third party organization or company trusted by 
browsers and operating systems to issue digital certificates on behalf of domain owners. 
2  
What HTTPS Doesn't Do 
HTTPS has several important limitations. IP addresses and destination domain names are 
not encrypted during communication. Even encrypted traffic can reveal some information 
indirectly, such as time spent on site, or the size of 
requested resources or submitted information. 
HTTPS-only guarantees the integrity of 
the connection between two systems, not the 
systems themselves. It 
is not designed to protect a web server from being hacked or 
compromised, or to prevent the web service from exposing user information during its normal 
operation. Similarly, if 
a user's system is compromised by an attacker, that system can be 
altered so that its future HTTPS connections are under the attacker's control. The guarantees of 
HTTPS may also be weakened or eliminated by compromised or malicious certificate 
authorities. 
Challenges and Considerations 
Site Performance: While encryption adds some computational overhead, modern software and 
hardware can handle this overhead without substantial deleterious impact on server performance 
or latency.6 Websites with content delivery networks or server software that supports the SPDY 
or HTTP/2 protocols, which require HTTPS in some major browsers, may find their site 
performance substantially improved as a result of 
migrating to HTTPS. 
Server Name Indication: The Server Name Indication extension to TLS allows for more 
efficient use ofiP addresses when serving multiple domains. However, these technologies are 
not supported by some legacy clients. 
7 Web service owners should evaluate the feasibility of 
using this technology to improve performance and efficiency. 
Mixed Content8: Websites served over HTTPS need to ensure that all external resources 
(images, scripts, fonts, iframes, etc.) are also loaded over a secure connection. Modern browsers 
will refuse to load many insecure resources referenced from within a secure website. When 
migrating existing websites, this can involve a combination of 
automated and manual effort to 
update, replace, or remove references to insecure resources. For some websites, this can be the 
most time consuming aspect ofthe migration process. 
APis and Services9: Web services that serve primarily non-browser clients, such as web APis, 
may require a more gradual and hands-on migration strategy, as not all clients can be expected to 
be configured for HTTPS connections or to successfully follow redirects. 
Planning for Change: Protocols and web standards improve regularly, and security 
vulnerabilities can emerge that require prompt attention. Federal websites and services should 
deploy HTTPS in a manner that allows for rapid updates to certificates, cipher choices 
6 https://istlsfastyet.com 
7 https://https.cio.gov/sni/ 
11Server Name Identification" 
8 https://https.cio.gov/mixed-content/ 
11Mixed Content" 
9 https://https.cio.gov/apis/'Migrating APis" 
3  
(including forward secrecy10) protocol versions, and other configuration elements. Agencies 
should monitor https.cio.gov and other public resources 11 to keep apprised of 
current best 
practices. 
Strict Transport Security: Websites and services available over HTTPS must enable HTTP 
Strict Transport Security (HSTS)12 to instruct compliant browsers to assume HTTPS going 
forward. This reduces the number of 
insecure redirects, and protects users against attacks that 
attempt to downgrade connections to plain HTTP. Once HSTS is in place, domains can be 
submitted to a "preload list"13 used by all major browsers to ensure the HSTS policy is in effect 
at all times. 
Domain Name System Security (DNSSEC): The new policy outlined in this Memorandum 
does not rescind or conflict with M-08-23, "Securing the Federal Government's Domain Name 
System Infrastructure."14 Once DNS resolution is complete, DNSSEC does not ensure the 
privacy or integrity of 
communication between a client and the destination IP. HTTPS provides 
this additional security. 
Cost Effective Implementation 
Implementing an HTTPS-only standard does not come without a cost. A significant 
number ofFederal websites have already deployed HTTPS. The goal ofthis policy is to increase 
that adoption. 
The administrative and financial burden of universal HTTPS adoption on all Federal 
websites includes development time, the financial cost ofprocuring a certificate and the 
administrative burden ofmaintenance over time. The development burden will vary 
substantially based on the size and technical infrastructure of a site. The compliance timeline, 
outlined in this Memorandum, provides sufficient flexibility for project planning and resource 
alignment. 
OMB affirms that tangible benefits to the American public outweigh the cost to the 
taxpayer. Even a small number ofunofficial or malicious websites claiming to be Federal 
services, or a small amount of 
eavesdropping on communication with official U.S. government 
sites could result in substantial losses to citizens. 
Technical assistance provided at https://HTTPS.cio.gov will aid in the cost-effective 
implementation ofthis policy. 
10 https:Uhttps.cio.gov/technical-concepts/#forward-secrecy "Forward Secrecy"  
11 https:Uhttps.cio.gov/resources/"Resources"  
12 https://https.cio.gov/hsts, "Strict Transport Security"  
13 https:Uhstspreload.appspot.com  
14 https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/omb/memoranda/fy2008/m08-23.pdf "Securing  
the Federal Government's Domain Name System Infrastructure."  
4  
Guidelines 
In order to promote the efficient and effective deployment of 
HTTPS, the timeframe for 
compliance, outlined below, is both reasonable and practical. This Memorandum requires that 
Federal agencies deploy HTTPS on their domains using the following guidelines. 
•  Newly developed websites and services at all Federal agency domains or subdomains 
must adhere to this policy upon launch. 
•  For existing websites and services, agencies should prioritize deployment using a risk­
based analysis. Web services that involve an exchange ofpersonally identifiable 
information (PII), where the content is unambiguously sensitive in nature, or where the 
content receives a high-level oftraffic should receive priority and migrate as soon as 
possible. 
•  Agencies must make all existing websites and services accessible through a secure 
connection15 (HTTPS-only, with HSTS) by December 31, 2016. 
•  The use ofHTTPS is encouraged on intranets16, but not explicitly required. 
To monitor agency compliance, a public dashboard has been established at 
https:/ 
/pulse.cio.gov. 
Technical Assistance 
Please visit https://HTTPS.cio.gov for technical assistance and best practices to aid in the 
implementation ofthis policy. 
For questions regarding this Memorandum, contact Mary A. Lazzeri in the Office ofE­
Government and Information and Technology at egov@omb.eop.gov with "HTTPS-Only 
Standard" as the subject line. 
15 Allowing HTIP connections for the sole purpose of redirecting clients to HTTPS connections is acceptable and  
encouraged. HSTS headers must specify a max-age of at least 1 year.  
16 "Intranet" is defined here as a computer network that is not directly reachable over the public internet.  
5 
