UNCLASSIFIED (U)
20 FAM 100
DATA MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
20 FAM 101
Data management
20 FAM 101.1
Data Management Introduction
(CT:DATA-5;   06-29-2023)
(Office of origin:  M/SS/CfA)
20 FAM 101.1-1
scope
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
This data policy applies to all projects and programs
collecting, using, and/or storing data. As such, the Office of the Secretary of
State, the Undersecretariats, and other Principal Offices as well as their
constituent bureaus and offices, every mission and post, and all other
organizational entities and support structures within the Department, must
comply with the provisions of this policy.
20 FAM 101.1-2
Authorities
(CT:DATA-1;   12-22-2022)
(1)
Department of State Enterprise
Data Strategy (2021)
outlines four goals (with underlying objectives)
that address the most critical data needs of the Department: Cultivating a Data
Culture, Accelerating Decisions through Analytics, Establishing Mission-Driven
Data Management, and Enhancing Enterprise Data Governance.
(2)
Department of State Information
Quality Guidelines (2002)
identifies the policies and procedures for
ensuring and maximizing the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of
information disseminated by the Department.
(3)
E-Government Act of 2002 (P.L.
107-347)
enhances the management and promotion of electronic Government
services and processes by establishing a framework of measures that require
using Internet-based information technology to enhance citizen access to Government
information and services, and for other purposes.
(4)
Executive Order 13642 on Making
Open and Machine-Readable the New Default for Government Information (2013)
requires the default state of new and modernized Government information
resources to be open and machine readable.
(5)
Executive Order 13960 on
Promoting the Use of Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence in the Federal
Government (2020)
provides guidelines for developing ethical,
trustworthy Artificial Intelligence use cases in the Federal government.
(6)
Federal Data Strategy and 2021
Action Plan (2021)
guides the Federal Government in practicing ethical
governance, conscious design, and a learning culture.
(7)
Foundations for Evidence-Based
Policymaking Act of 2018 (P.L. 115-435)
requires federal agencies to
modernize its data management practices. It includes the following Open,
Public, Electronic, and Necessary (OPEN) Government Data Act (Title II)
provisions that are of interest to the Department:
(a)  44 U.S. Code 3520: Chief Data Officer’s Role
and Responsibilities
(b)  44 U.S. Code 3605 (b)–(d), (f), and (i):
Agencies’ Responsibilities
(c)  44 U.S. Code 3607: Public Information Collection
Guidelines
(d)  44 U.S. Code 3611: Data Inventory and Federal Data
Catalogue
(8)
Freedom of Information Act of
1966 (FOIA),
as amended; privacy exemptions (5 U.S.C. 552(c)(6) and
(c)(7)(C)) defines public access to all federal agency records except for those
records (or portions of those records) that are protected from disclosure by
any of the nine exemptions or three exclusions (reasons for which an agency may
withhold records from a requester).
(9)
Government Paperwork Elimination
Act of 1998 (GPEA) (P.L. 105-277, Title XVII)
requires federal agencies
to allow individuals or entities that deal with the agencies the option to
submit information or transact with the agency electronically, when
practicable, and to maintain records electronically, when practicable.
(10)
Guidance for Agency Use of
Third-Party Websites and Applications, M-10-23 (2010)
calls for transparent
privacy policies, individual notice, and a careful analysis of the privacy
implications whenever Federal agencies choose to use third-party technologies
to engage with the public.
(11)
Implementation Guidance for Title
V of the E-Government Act Confidential Information Protection and Statistical
Efficiency Act of 2002 (CIPSEA)
informs agencies about the requirements
for using CIPSEA and clarifies the circumstances under which CIPSEA can be
used.
(12)
Instructions on Complying with
President’s Memorandum of May 14, 1998, “Privacy and Personal
Information in Federal Records,” M-99-05 (1999)
provides
instructions to agencies on how to comply with the President's Memorandum of
May 14, 1998 on “Privacy and Personal Information in Federal
Records.”
(13)
Management of Federal Information
Resources, Circular No. A-130, Transmittal Memorandum No. 4 (2000)
establishes
policy for the management of Federal information resources.
(14)
Memorandum on Restoring Trust in
Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based Policymaking (2021)
stresses the importance of data integrity with respect to scientific analysis
and findings.
(15)
OMB Circular A-130, Managing
Information as a Strategic Resource (2016)
establishes general policy
for information governance, acquisitions, records management, open data,
workforce, security, and privacy.
(16)
OMB Guidance for Implementing the
Privacy Provisions of the E-Government Act of 2002
provides information
to agencies on implementing the privacy provisions of the E-Government Act of
2002.
(17)
OMB Memorandum M-10-06, Open
Government Directive (2010)
directs executive departments and agencies
to take specific actions to implement the principles of transparency,
participation, and collaboration set forth in the President’s Memorandum
on Transparency and Open Government, issued on January 21, 2009.
(18)
OMB Memorandum M-13-13, Open Data
Policy – Managing Information as an Asset (2013)
establishes a
framework to help institutionalize the principles of effective information
management at each stage of the information’s life cycle.
(19)
OMB Memorandum M-19-23, Phase 1
Implementation of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018:
Learning Agendas, Personnel, and Planning Guidance (2019)
establishes
expectations for how and when agencies are to implement Evidence Act
requirements.
(20)
OMB Privacy Act Implementation:
Guidelines and Responsibilities
, published in the Federal Register, 40
FR 28948 (July 9, 1975) defines responsibilities for implementing the Privacy
Act of 1974.
(21)
OMB Section 515 Information
Quality Guidelines (67 FR 8451-8460) (2002)
provides policy and
procedural guidance to Federal agencies for ensuring and maximizing the
quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of information disseminated by
Federal agencies.
(22)
Privacy Act of 1974, as amended
(5 U.S.C. 552a)
establishes requirements that govern the collection,
maintenance, use, and dissemination of information about individuals that is
maintained in systems of records by federal agencies.
(23)
Public Diplomacy Modernization
Act of 2021 (2021)
modernizes and streamlines the public diplomacy
capabilities of the Department of State, increases evaluation of public
diplomacy programming, and enhances strategic planning for the
Department’s public diplomacy physical presence abroad.
(24)
OMB Memorandum Recommendations
for Identity Theft Related Data Breach Notification (2006)
provides
recommendations for planning and responding to data breaches which could result
in identify theft.
(25)
Reporting Incidents Involving
Personally Identifiable Information and Incorporating the Cost for Security in
Agency Information Technology Investments, M-06-19 (2006)
provides
guidance on the reporting of security incidents involving personally
identifiable information.
(26)
Safeguarding Against and
Responding to the Breach of Personally Identifiable Information, M-07-16 (2007)
requires agencies to develop and implement a breach notification policy.
(27)
Safeguarding Personally
Identifiable Information, M-06-15 (2006)
reemphasizes responsibilities
under law and policy to appropriately safeguard sensitive personally
identifiable information and train employees on their responsibilities in the
area.
(29)
Social Security Number Fraud
Prevention Act of 2017 (P.L. 115-59)
clarifies and updates the language
of procedural requirements pertaining to the inclusion of Social Security account
numbers on documents that the Department sends by mail.
20 FAM 101.1-3
DEFINITIONS
[i]
(CT:DATA-5;   06-29-2023)
Artificial Intelligence - The federal government has
defined Artificial Intelligence per section 238(g) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (P.L. 115-232):  the term
‘‘artificial intelligence’’ includes the following:
(1)  Any artificial system that performs tasks under
varying and unpredictable circumstances without significant human oversight, or
that can learn from experience and improve performance when exposed to data
sets.
(2)  An artificial system developed in computer software,
physical hardware, or other context that solves tasks requiring human-like
perception, cognition, planning, learning, communication, or physical action.
(3)  An artificial system designed to think or act like
a human, including cognitive architectures and neural networks.
(4)  A set of techniques, including machine learning,
that is designed to approximate a cognitive task.
(5)  An artificial system designed to act rationally,
including an intelligent software agent or embodied robot that achieves goals
using perception, planning, reasoning, learning, communicating, decision
making, and acting.
Authoritative Data Source - Considered primary or most
reliable source of a particular kind of information.
Cables - Official records of Department policies,
program activities, post operations, and personnel management.
Computer Matching Agreement - An agreement between the
source agency and the recipient agency (or non-federal agency) specifying terms
of computerized matching programs.
Data - Recorded information, regardless of form or the
media on which it is recorded.
Data Access - The ability to retrieve data stored
within a repository.
Data Architecture - Architectural framework for how
data is stored, managed, and used in a system. It describes how data is persistently
stored, how components and processes reference and manipulate this data, how
external/legacy systems access the data, interfaces to data managed by
external/legacy systems, implementation of common data operations.
Data Asset - A collection of data elements or data sets
that may be grouped together.
Data Governance Operating Model - The structure and
responsibility for data governance activities.
Data Lifecycle - Processes that create or obtain data,
those that move, transform, and store it and enable it to be maintained and
shared, and those that use or apply it, as well as those that dispose or retain
of it.
Data Onboarding - The collection or creation of data.
Data at the Department may be onboarded by being created, collected, acquired,
or downloaded from another source (such as the internet or another agency).
Data Preparation and Storage - The extraction,
transformation, cleaning, loading, and retention of data for ongoing use.
Data Privacy - The proper handling of sensitive data to
meet regulatory requirements around individual identity disclosure. See
5 FAM 460
: Data Privacy.
Data Publication - The process of making information,
particularly data generated from research, available to all.
Data Retention - Data and records management to meet legal
and business data archival requirements.
Data Security - The protection of data from destructive
forces and the unwanted actions of unauthorized users. See
12
FAM 500
: Information Security.
Data Sharing - Availability of data to multiple applications
or users across the enterprise or externally.
Data Sharing Agreement - A documented arrangement,
agreement, or similar memorandum of understanding between two or more
subcomponents within the Department or between the Department and a third party
(e.g., another U.S. Government agency, non-federal entity, or a foreign
counterpart) that outlines the parties’ roles and responsibilities around
the sharing, access, and use of one or more data assets.
Data Standards - A documented agreement and specification
by an authoritative body on a definition, representation, or format of data,
metadata, or exchange protocol that is used to improve data understanding and
data interoperability. The Department’s enterprise-level data standards
are known as the Master Reference Data (MRD).
Data Steward - Person(s) accountable and responsible
for data and processes that ensure effective control and use of data assets.
Data Transparency - The ability to see how data
decisions are made.
Data Use - The consumption of data to support mission
and management objectives.
Enterprise Data Catalog - A central repository of data
assets, built on the Enterprise Data Inventory, with a user interface on
OpenNet that facilitates user discovery and access to shareable data assets.
Enterprise Data Governance - The exercise of authority,
control, and shared decision making (planning, monitoring, and enforcement)
over the management of data assets.
Enterprise Data Inventory - A central listing of
Department-wide data assets, with accompanying metadata that provide
information and descriptions about each data asset's name, variables, last
updated date, stewardship, use restrictions, location within the enterprise,
and open data determinations and/or exemptions (if applicable).
Enterprise Data Management (EDM) - Development and
execution of plans, policies, programs, and practices that acquire, control,
protect and enhance the value of data assets throughout the lifecycle, led or
performed by data professionals following established disciplines and
functions.
Interoperability - The ability of different operating
and software systems, applications, and services to communicate and exchange
data in an accurate, effective, and consistent manner.
Lifecycle Data Management - Policies and procedures for
acquisition, migration, retention, expiration, and disposition of data.
Master Reference Data (MRD) - A set of stable reference
data sets sharable by all business teams and applications across the
Department; these are the Department’s enterprise-level standard
reference data (such as accounting codes, countries and areas, organizational
codes, etc.).
Metadata - Structural or descriptive information about
data such as content, format, source, rights, accuracy, provenance, frequency,
periodicity, granularity, publisher or responsible party, contact information,
method of collection, and other descriptions.
OPEN Government Data Asset - A public data asset that
is machine-readable, available (or could be made available) in an open format,
not encumbered by restrictions, other than intellectual property rights,
including under United States Code titles 17 and 35, that would impede the use
or reuse of such asset; and based on an underlying open standard that is
maintained by a standards organization.
Record - see
5 FAM 415
,
Definitions.
UNCLASSIFIED (U)
[i]
The two works cited in this section that lack URL addresses are:
DAMA International
, DAMA-DMBOK: Data Management Body of
     Knowledge, 2
nd
Edition, July 17, 2017 and
U.S. Department of State
,
Office of Management Strategy
     and Solutions
, “Enterprise Data Strategy Common Data
     Vocabulary,” November 18, 2020.
Definitions that lack citations come from sources internal
to the Department.